 
 
DRN-3963678 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout.  
What happened 
In August 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,400 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £16,341.60 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £136.18. There was a £135 arrangement fee and an interest charge 
of £5,806.60. 
Creation has supplied another loan agreement from October 2013 with the same figures, but 
as the system was installed in August 2013, I think the August fixed sum loan seems to be 
correct.  
In January 2022 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system 
was mis-sold. She said P told her she’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that she’d have reduced energy 
bills. She said P sold the system as being self-funding within the loan term. She said P 
promised her guaranteed income for 20 years; 10% earnings tax free annually; her property 
value would increase; and that the system would be maintenance free with at least a 25 year 
life expectancy. She said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and 
several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself 
and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in February 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding within the loan term. She didn’t think the system was, and so she 
thought P had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship 
between Mrs S and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss through entering into 
the agreement. She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and 
assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that she pays no more than 
that, and she keeps the system. She also thought Creation should pay £100 for the impact 
on Mrs S of not looking into the s.140A claim. 
 
 
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mrs S complained, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of 
our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mrs S says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the 
system. 
 
 
I’ve looked at the other documents Mrs S has been able to supply. The brochure she’s 
supplied sets out that the payback period being a concern for people investing in renewable 
energy had been reduced. And that customers could make a ‘real profit’ through buying a 
system. I therefore think if the brochure mentions the financial benefits of the system and the 
return on investment it’s likely that would have been a central part of the discussion between 
P and Mrs S.  
Mrs S has also supplied an order form, invoice, and handover information. But these forms 
don’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system. Mrs S has supplied a contract with 
the SAP calculation on, but this doesn’t set out the estimated benefits either.  
We asked Mrs S more about the purchase and she explained she’d heard about solar 
panels and thought it would be a good way to cut the bills down but wasn’t actively looking. 
She said she agreed to buy the system because P told her it would pay for itself. She said 
her partner was unwell with a long-lasting heath condition and so they were looking for ways 
to save money. She said P sold the system as though it would cover the loan payments and 
that she’d have some money left over. She said P told her once the agreement was paid off, 
she’d have extra money coming in. I think Mrs S would have looked to P’s representative to 
help her understand how much the system would cost and what benefit she’d receive. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs S said happened. Mrs S was looking 
for ways to save money. Yet she left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of £136.18, payable for 10 years. Given her aims and the financial 
burden she took on I find Mrs S’s account of what she was told by P, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have 
seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she 
received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of over £1,600 per year. However, importantly here I don’t think the system 
would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan.  
I think the statements that were likely made by P were not true. I think P’s representative 
must reasonably have been aware that Mrs S’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount 
of sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have known that Mrs S’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs S. 
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, and that Creation hasn’t disputed 
these facts, I think it likely P gave Mrs S a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view. 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mrs S also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mrs S’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments Mrs S has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs S 
• 
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation 
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
