DRN-3182980
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sent him misleading 
information about the end of his Buy Now Pay Later period, which resulted in him incurring 
interest charges.
What happened
Mr D made purchases using a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) credit agreement provided by 
Creation. The agreement provided a 12-month interest free period provided the full amount 
was repaid by the Special Offer Date (BNPL end date) – 14 May 2021.
Mr D was sent an email from Creation, in March 2021, informing him that his March 
statement was available to view on his online account. This email included a payment due 
date of 14 June 2021.  
Mr D says he didn’t receive an email in April 2021. And based on the email he received in 
March 2021, he believed he had until June 2021 to settle his balance and avoid being 
charged interest.
Because Creation didn’t receive payment of the full amount by the BNPL end date, interest 
was applied to Mr D’s balance. Mr D complained to Creation about this. He said he’d been 
informed by email that he had until 14 June 2021 to pay his balance.
Creation issued a final response to Mr D’s complaint on 25 June 2021. It explained that the 
BNPL end date was clearly stated on Mr D’s credit agreement. It said Mr D had no obligation 
to settle his agreement in full by that date, he only needed to do so if he wanted to avoid 
paying interest. Creation said the emails sent were to inform Mr D that his first direct debit 
payment would be taken from 14 June 2021. But the email also included a link to Mr D’s 
online statements, and these clearly stated the BNPL end date was 14 May 2021. Based on 
this, it didn’t uphold Mr D’s complaint.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. He said the emails he received were misleading 
and designed to ensure that he missed the BNPL end date and was charged interest. He 
said Creation failed to send him an email in April 2021 as it was required to. So, he felt 
Creation should refund him the interest he’d been charged.
Our investigator didn’t think Mr D’s complaint should be upheld. She said the emails sent to 
Mr D explained that the payment due date was the date his direct debit payment was due 
and that this was different to the BNPL end date. She also said the online statements 
included details of the BNPL end date and Mr D could have signed up for access to these 
from the outset of his credit agreement.
 
Mr D doesn’t agree. He accepts the correct BNPL end date was 14 May 2021 and that he 
didn’t clear his balance by this date. But he says he would have done had Creation not sent 
misleading emails.
So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold the complaint for the following reasons: 
Mr D’s credit agreement clearly states that the BNPL period for his purchase ends on 
14 May 2021. It goes on to explain:
“Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the 
payments do not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £2203 by this date you 
won't be charged any interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the 
credit amount due, you will have to make monthly repayments of 143.34 starting on 
14/06/2021. Any balance left to pay after this date will incur interest from the date of 
your purchase at the rate specified in your credit agreement.” 
And,
“You will be automatically opted in to receive online statements for your 'Your Plan' 
account. You'll receive a monthly notification via email when your statement is ready. 
This will contain a link to log on to your online account to view your statement.
Logon to www.yourplan.online to view your account today.”
In my view the above information is clearly and prominently displayed on the credit 
agreement. So, I’m satisfied that Mr D was appropriately made aware of his BNPL end date, 
and how he could access his statements, when he took out the credit. 
 
I’ve next considered whether I think Mr D was appropriately notified that his BNPL period 
was coming to an end. 
Mr D says that the emails he was sent by Creation were misleading because the payment 
due date was quoted as 14 June 2021. I’ve thought carefully about this. But from what I’ve 
seen, the email sent to Mr D in March 2021 also stated:
“Payment Due Date explained

If you are currently paying by Direct Debit, below is your next payment due date.

If you are already paying for Your Plan purchases by Direct Debit and recently made 
a purchase on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL), please login to your online account for 
further information. 

If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to advise when 
your first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL end date will have been 
provided at the time of purchase, you will receive a reminder 30-40 days prior to the 
end”
The final bullet point above makes a distinction between the direct debit due date and the 
BNPL end date. This email also included a link to login to the online account and view the 
March 2021 statement. This statement clearly stated the BNPL end date as 14 May 2021 
and that the BNPL period was coming to an end.
Mr D has pointed out that the March 2021 email stated he’d receive a reminder about his 
BNPL end date within 30 to 40 days. He says he didn’t receive any emails from Creation 
between March 2021 and May 2021 – the latter of which was after the expiry of the BNPL 
period.
Creation says that an email was sent to Mr D in April 2021 but says its unable to evidence 
this due to its data retention policy. It has, however, pointed out that the April 2021 statement 
would have been available for Mr D to see on his online account from 24 April 2021. And I’ve 
seen a screenshot of Mr D’s online account which supports that this would have been the 
case.
Again, I’ve thought carefully about the above. In order to uphold Mr D’s complaint, I’d need 
to be satisfied that Creation failed to bring to his attention that the BNPL end date was 
approaching. As Creation is unable to evidence that it sent the April 2021 email, I can’t 
reasonably conclude, on balance, that it did so. However, in the circumstances here, I don’t 
think that means it failed to appropriately notify Mr D about the end of his BNPL period. I say 
this because I’m persuaded that the April 2021 statement would have been available on the 
online portal from 24 April 2021. And in addition to this, as stated above, the March 2021 
statement clearly included the correct BNPL end date and an explanation that the BNPL 
period was coming to an end. And the link to this statement was definitely emailed to Mr D, 
and received by him, in March 2021.
Ultimately, I think Creation did enough to remind Mr D that his BNPL period was coming to 
an end. I accept Mr D found the inclusion of the direct debit due date to be confusing. But I 
don’t agree that the email was misleading, when read in its entirety. And I can’t reasonably 
hold Creation responsible for Mr D’s decision not to check the accompanying statement.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr D’s complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman
