DRN-3647261
The complaint
Mr W complains that the furniture he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr W entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation on 2 May 2021 to acquire a sofa 
and armchair. He took delivery and says he immediately noticed issues with shading of the 
sofa cushions and was concerned the furniture wasn’t new. Mr W raised his concerns with 
the retailer and a technician carried out an inspection. Mr W says the technician took 
photographs and told him the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose and would get worse. However, 
when the report was sent to Creation it said there was nothing wrong with the sofa. Mr W 
then raised concerns about the sofa sagging and after a second inspection took place he 
was told there was nothing wrong and the issue was wear and tear. Mr W didn’t accept this 
and had a further independent inspection carried out.
Creation considered Mr W’s claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said 
that two separate inspections had taken place, and these didn’t find the sofa was faulty. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought Mr W had a valid claim under Section 75 
due to the sofa not being of satisfactory quality.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the comments in the independent inspection were 
unsubstantiated and noted that Mr W had had the sofa for 10 months at the time of the 
inspection. It also said the inspection report said the claim was invalid in terms of fault 
liability. 
As a resolution to this complaint hasn’t been reached, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W acquired new furniture through a fixed sum loan agreement. This complaint has been 
considered under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and I accept the 
requirements for this are in place. Section 75 sets out that in certain circumstances, the 
finance provider (Creation) can be held liable if there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of the goods by the supplier. In this case I do not find that the goods were 
misrepresented and have focussed on whether there was been a breach of contract due to 
the sofa not being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr W acquired new furniture and so it is reasonable that he would expect it to be free from 
faults, including minor defects, and be sufficiently durable. Mr W took delivery of the furniture 
on 12 May 2021 and raised concerns shortly after. An inspection report took place on 3 June 
2021 to investigate the shading in the fabric. The photographs contained in the report clearly 
show the issue complained of and the report states that steam could be added to the area, 
but the issue will return. While no fault was identified, the photographs clearly show the 
issue. Given it was thought steam was needed to correct the issue and this was only three 
weeks after delivery (and Mr W had raised the issue immediately after delivery), I think this 
raises concerns about the quality and durability of the fabric. Also noting the comment that 
the issue is likely to return I think this also raises concerns that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality.
The second report took place on 15 July 2021 and considered Mr W’s comments about the 
sofa sagging. The report said that the reported faults were due to natural settlement of the 
product. The report also commented on the fabric saying it had some stretching but that it 
was within normal tolerance.
Mr W has said that the original technician had said the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose, but this 
wasn’t included in the report. He then had an independent inspection carried out on 21 
March 2022. This report said that there was excessive wear and on the arm rests, seating 
and head rest areas. While the report notes this is normal wear and tear, Mr W explained the 
issue was present from the outset and the technician said a new sofa should not be look like 
Mr W’s. 
On balance, the photographs in the reports confirm the issue Mr W raised and given the 
timing of when this issue was raised, I find it reasonable to accept the sofa wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I note Creation’s comment about the independent 
inspection taking place ten months after delivery but the photographs in this show the same 
issue present in the photographs taken in the first report, three weeks after delivery. 
Therefore, I accept the issue was present from the outset and note the independent 
inspector’s comment that this shouldn’t be the condition of a new sofa. Therefore, I find that 
Mr W has a valid claim under Section 75.
Mr W made it clear he wished to return the furniture within the first 30 days, and I think this 
would have been a reasonable remedy. As this didn’t happen, I find it reasonable that Mr W 
is now allowed to reject the furniture (all furniture subject to the agreement as it was bought 
as a set). Given Mr W raised the issues immediately after delivery, I find it reasonable that 
he is refunded all repayments made towards the agreement. 
Putting things right
Because I do not find that the goods are of a satisfactory quality, Creation should:

arrange for the goods subject to the fixed sum loan agreement to be collected from 
Mr W at no cost and at a time convenience to Mr W;

refund all payments made by Mr W towards the agreement, including the £355 
deposit;

terminate the agreement and record it as settled;

refund Mr W £60 for the payment for an independent report;

pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date they were paid to the 
date they are refunded; and

remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr W’s credit file in 
regard to this agreement.
*HMRC requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must provide Mr W with a 
breakdown of how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
