 
 
DRN-5091275 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Mr P has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from October 2024, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I wasn’t 
planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I wasn’t persuaded that Mr P 
was induced into buying the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by 
misrepresentations, so I didn’t find the basis of an unfair relationship between him and 
Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Neither has responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m not upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
 
 
“What happened 
 
In April 2012, Mr P bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) using a 5-year fixed sum loan 
from Creation. He bought it from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount payable under the 
agreement was £8,370.60, and it was due to be paid back with 60 monthly repayments of 
£139.51. 
 
Via a professional representative, Mr P complained to Creation. His representative said that 
he was told by a salesperson that the system was self-funding, but it isn’t, and he’s suffered a 
financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between himself and Creation. 
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr P had brought him 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’).  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. 
 
An adjudicator considered Mr P’s complaint, he ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s answer 
seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been referred 
in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr P and Creation.  
 
 
He recommended that Mr P keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr P had 
paid, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
He also recommended an award of £100 distress and inconvenience as a result of the poor 
and protracted way in which Creation had dealt with this matter. 
Mr P accepted that. Creation didn’t respond. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of 
our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
Since then, we repeatedly asked Mr P’s representative for some more information about the 
sale, which it has not replied to. Having considered everything, such as there is, I’m currently 
not planning to uphold the complaint, which I will explain in detail. 
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
Having done so, I’m planning to find that this complaint is within my jurisdiction to consider, 
but that the merits of it should not be upheld. 
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction  
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr P’s s.75 claim on 
25 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr P 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 11 July 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
I have also considered our jurisdiction over the complaint about an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the complaint was brought in time so that the Financial 
Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship 
with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the 
assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. A 
court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, 
including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard 
to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making 
the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in 
Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
 
 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is ongoing, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr P’s case the relationship had ended fewer than six years before he referred his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. It would appear that happened in October 2017 – 
and certainly no earlier. For the duration of the relationship, Creation was responsible for the 
matters which made its relationship with Mr P unfair and for taking steps to remove the source 
of that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. 
By relying in his complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and 
Creation, Mr P therefore complained about an event that had occurred fewer than six years 
before he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr P’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be considered 
under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or not 
done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation 
by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and important aspects of a 
transaction. 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations 
and arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when considering 
whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, and that I can consider the alleged 
misrepresentations under the unfair relationship complaint, I don’t think I need to provide a 
detailed analysis of Mr P’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a 
fair outcome in the circumstances. 
 
What happened? 
 
 
 
Mr P’s representatives have said that Mr P was told by E’s representative that the system 
would be self-funding. Despite numerous requests for more information and direct testimony 
from Mr P, those have been ignored over the course of many months. 
Unfortunately, there is no documentary evidence from the sale, other than the credit 
agreement. So I have no paperwork to review to see if there was anything contained within it 
that ought to have made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. The loan 
agreement shows that both the total amount payable, and the monthly cost of the loan were 
clear to Mr P.  However, there is no mention on the agreement of the potential benefits of the 
panels. 
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to have produced combined 
savings and FIT income of a little under £1,680 per year. Unfortunately, Mr P has not 
provided us with any evidence to show that the panels haven’t produced that. He says, via his 
representative, that they haven’t. But whether he has even provided enough information to 
substantiate that he has incurred any loss is debatable. 
 
I have been able to access some archived content from what I think is more likely than not to 
be E’s website (based on the installer’s registered address) from just before and just after the 
time of the sale, which I think is relevant when considering the likely content and tone of the 
information it would have given Mr P – both verbally and in writing. However, I have found no 
website content which says that the solar panels are will be self-funding. The only relevant 
claims I can find are that the system will provide, “Reduced utility bills”, and that customers 
can, “Start saving today”. 
 
Overall, while I’ve carefully considered what Mr P’s representatives have said, given what I’ve 
set out above, I’m not persuaded there’s sufficient evidence Mr P was misled the system 
would be self-funding, and that is what induced him to enter into the contract in question. 
Additionally, Mr P’s claim that the system hasn’t paid for itself has not been substantiated by 
him in any way. Therefore, I don’t have the grounds to say that Creation’s decision to decline 
the claim was unfair, or that it would be likely a Court would find the relationship between 
them to have been unfair.” 
 
As mentioned above, neither party has replied at all to my provisional decision. Therefore I 
have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out therein. And so it follows that I don’t 
uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer 
Finance doesn’t need to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
