 
 
DRN-5558185 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs M complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation (‘Creation’) 
handled her claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘section 75’). 
 
What happened 
Mrs M went to a retailer where, with its help, she arranged a design for a new bathroom. The 
sales advisor gave her an estimate of £3,200 for the goods and up to £2,900 for the 
installation. Acting as a broker for Creation, the retailer arranged for a fixed sum loan 
agreement of £3,172.02 (the ‘finance agreement’) to cover the costs of the goods which was 
paid directly to the retailer. Mrs M separately paid £50 to the retailer for it to arrange a survey 
to give her a more accurate quote for the installation of the bathroom. The goods were ordered 
on 31 July 2023 which was the same date as the finance agreement. The goods were 
delivered within a few days of the order being placed and the survey was completed on 
16 August 2023. An installation quote of £8,000 was given by the surveyor.  
 
Mrs M complained about a number of matters to the retailer, including the price difference 
between the quote given by the sales advisor and subsequently, the surveyor. Dissatisfied with 
the lack of response from the retailer Mrs M complained to Creation saying it should be held 
liable under section 75 for breach of contract by the retailer. Before Creation provided a 
substantive response to Mrs M, she referred her complaint to our service. And whilst the 
complaint was with us, Creation confirmed it didn’t think it was liable under section 75 as the 
goods Mrs M ordered were of satisfactory quality.  
 
Initially our investigator said Creation should be held liable under section 75 for breach of 
contract as, in his view, the retailer hadn’t exercised reasonable care and skill when providing 
Mrs M with the initial quote. But when Mrs M said she didn’t want to reverse the contract for 
the goods, he recommended the only action Creation had to take was to pay her £100 for poor 
customer service issues in the way it handled her claim. Mrs M disagreed with the 
investigator’s view maintaining that she thought Creation was in breach of contract and as a 
result, she thought it should be held liable to pay for the installation costs of her bathroom. She 
also said she didn’t sign the finance agreement that paid for the goods. So, the matter was 
passed to me for a decision.  
 
I issued a provisional decision. I said that I was reaching the same outcome as the investigator 
but for different reasons. Mrs M disagreed. She reiterated that she hadn’t signed the finance 
agreement. Creation didn’t add any further comments. So, the matter has been passed back 
to me to finalise. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in 
far less detail than the parties. I’ve focussed on what I think are the key issues here which 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service.  
 
 
 
I note what Mrs M said in her response to my provisional decision. But I can’t see that she’s 
added anything significantly new. I appreciate she maintains she didn’t sign the finance 
agreement. I note Mrs M said she wanted to see the email that was sent to her before 
signing the contract. This hasn’t been provided to us by either party. Creation said it can’t 
locate any other evidence of Mrs M signing for the finance. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, where information is incomplete or contradictory, I’ll make my decision based on a 
balance of probabilities – that is, on what I think is more likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.  
 
Creation has provided us with a copy of the finance agreement showing it was electronically 
signed. And Creation has also provided a copy of a letter dated 31 July 2023 addressed to 
Mrs M which enclosed a copy of this agreement. The covering letter stated that Mrs M had 
entered into a finance agreement for the purchase of goods. Further, Creation has provided 
a copy of the receipt from the retailer also dated 31 July 2023. This states the total amount 
paid for the order (goods) was £3,172.02 and then went on to say that this order was paid for 
via a ‘Creation loan’ totalling the same amount. Mrs M doesn’t dispute receiving a copy of the 
finance agreement or the cover letter that came with it. She also doesn’t dispute ordering, 
receiving, and retaining the goods that she purchased from the retailer and that were paid for 
using the ‘Creation loan’. So, whilst I’ve taken into account Mrs M’s further comments on this 
point, I’m still satisfied that, on balance, Creation hasn’t done anything wrong by activating 
the finance agreement. Given this, whilst I appreciate Mrs M taking the time to respond to my 
provisional findings, I’ve no reason to change my mind. My view on how to settle this matter 
remains as follows: 
 
Mrs M used a fixed sum loan from Creation to fund the goods she purchased from the retailer. 
It's important to note at the outset that Creation isn’t the supplier (the ‘supplier’ is the wording 
used in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘Act’). I will refer to the ‘supplier’ as the retailer 
throughout this decision). So, in order to decide if it has acted fairly, I need to consider 
Creation’s role as a provider of financial services only. And with this in mind I consider 
section 75 to be relevant. I also think section 56 of the Act is applicable. This section says that 
any negotiations between Mrs M and the retailer are deemed to have been conducted by it as 
an agent of Creation. So, amongst other things, I’ve taken these sections of the Act into 
account as well as other relevant law such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 when deciding 
how to fairly and reasonably resolve this complaint.  
 
In terms of the finance agreement Mrs M entered into with Creation, this was solely to finance 
the goods for her bathroom which, as I understand it, she received. She was also able to 
arrange for any items that weren’t fit for purpose/not of satisfactory quality to be exchanged for 
more suitable items. So, on balance, I can’t fairly or reasonably say that Creation has acted 
incorrectly by not accepting liability for a breach of contract. 
 
Mrs M says she never signed the finance agreement dated 31 July 2023 which she believes 
was signed in-store in her absence. And she says she was only notified it had been activated 
after the survey had been carried out on 16 August 2023. I note the retailer’s response to 
Creation about this matter said the process for signing the finance agreement was that: “…the 
customer would have been sent an email from Creation for them to sign at home as the 
Finance was “referred”, this would mean that they would not need to be physically in store for 
the Finance to go through.”  
 
So, from what I can see the retailer’s process didn’t involve Mrs M signing the finance agreement 
in-store and this would explain why she doesn’t remember signing it in this way. Creation has 
confirmed it was signed electronically by Mrs M on 31 July 2023. I can see Creation has been 
able to provide a copy of the finance agreement to us which was sent to Mrs M by post on the 
same day she signed it. The finance agreement showed how much she had borrowed 
 
 
(£3,172.02), the rate of interest (0%), and the duration of the agreement (24 months). I also note 
it was signed and dated the same date Mrs M entered into a contract for the goods she ordered 
from the retailer, who attempted delivery within a few days of her order.  
 
Whilst Mrs M says she tried to stop the goods from being delivered, from what she has said, this 
seems to have been because she didn’t want the goods delivered before the survey rather than 
because she didn’t want to enter into the finance agreement. I can’t see any evidence of her 
trying to cancel the finance agreement that funded these goods. And she doesn’t appear to want 
the finance agreement reversed even in response to our investigator’s initial recommendation for 
Creation to do so. Based on everything I’ve seen, I can’t fairly or reasonably say Creation has 
done anything wrong in activating the finance agreement when it did which, on balance, I 
consider was entered into by Mrs M to fund the goods she ordered.  
  
Mrs M says she was misled into entering into both the finance agreement and the contract 
for the goods – she says she entered into these contracts based on misleading statements 
made by the sales advisor. For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by the retailer 
in the way that has been alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on 
the available evidence, that the retailer made false statements of fact when selling the goods 
to Mrs M. In other words, it had told her something which wasn’t true in relation to one or 
more of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that any misrepresentations were 
material in inducing Mrs M to enter into the contract for the goods or the finance agreement. 
This means I would need to be persuaded she reasonably relied on any false statements 
when deciding to enter into these contracts.  
 
The main misrepresentation Mrs M says she relied on was the initial quote given to her by the 
sales advisor which was much lower than the quote from the surveyor. But the initial quote was 
an estimate not a statement of fact. This was made clear within the “Installation estimate guide” 
itself, which said its sole purpose was to help Mrs M to decide whether to continue with a home 
survey and receive a final installation quote. Further, the estimate was clearly labelled ‘subject 
to survey’ and went on to say it was to be used as an indicative guide only which was also 
mirrored in the retailer’s terms and conditions. As far as I can tell there was no requirement for 
Mrs M to place an order for the goods before she had the survey carried out. So, whilst Mrs M 
thinks Creation should be held liable to pay the installation costs for her bathroom, I can’t see 
any basis to require it to do so. The installation costs were never part of the contract she 
entered into with the retailer. And the estimate she received clearly said it was only to be relied 
on for the purpose of deciding whether to pay for a survey. I don’t think it could be reasonably 
relied on to enter into either the finance agreement or the contract for the sale of goods. 
 
Even if I were to accept Mrs M entered into the finance agreement or the contract for the goods 
as a result of a misrepresentation, which on the face of it, I do not, there isn’t sufficient evidence 
that she’s suffered any loss. She benefited from the goods which were paid for using the funds 
financed by the Creation loan. And she has made it clear she wishes to retain these goods. I 
can also see from the retailer’s notes that when Mrs M received the quote from the surveyor, 
she said she didn’t want to proceed with the retailer arranging the installation – she opted 
instead to arrange for the fitting herself. So, on balance, I can’t say Mrs M has lost out as a 
result of something said or done by the retailer for which Creation could be held liable.  
 
Finally, in terms of the customer service issues Mrs M experienced when making her claim 
against Creation, I’m satisfied its communication with her was, at times, poor. For example, 
there were difficulties getting responses from the section 75 team and putting her through to that 
team. This must’ve caused some frustration and inconvenience for Mrs M who had to chase 
Creation for answers to her queries. So, for the poor service she received from Creation, which, 
whilst frustrating, didn’t ultimately impact on the outcome of her claim, I’m satisfied the £100 
compensation recommended by our investigator, which Creation has agreed with, is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve matters. 
 
 
 
For all the above reasons, I won’t be asking Creation to do anything more than pay Mrs M £100 
in compensation. It is entitled to deduct anything from this amount it has already paid. I 
appreciate this is not the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. As noted above, my role is to look at 
things informally. So, if Mrs M disagrees, she can reject my decision and pursue matters by 
alternative means if she wants, such as court (seeking appropriate advice in the process). 
 
My final decision 
 
My final decision is that, if not already done so, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as 
Creation must pay Mrs M £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2025.  
 
  
 
Yolande Mcleod 
Ombudsman 
 
