DRN-3837786
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, 
including that Creation failed to provide a duty of care to him regarding his mental health.
What happened
Mr C has a credit account with Creation and has experienced difficult personal and financial 
circumstances which have negatively affected his mental health and caused him to fall into 
arrears on his Creation account. Mr C approached Creation and asked to be allowed to clear 
the arrears on his account without the account balance incurring any monthly interest, but 
Creation weren’t willing to allow this. Mr C wasn’t happy and didn’t feel that Creation were 
taking reasonable account of his mental health. So, he raised a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr C’s complaint. They noted they had recorded that Mr C was struggling 
with his mental health when he’d first told them about it several years ago. But Creation 
didn’t feel that they’d acted unfairly towards Mr C as he maintained, and they didn’t feel that 
Mr C’s mental health issues should fairly mean that he shouldn’t pay interest on the account 
in line with credit agreement. So, they didn’t uphold that aspect of Mr C’s complaint.
However, Creation did accept that Mr C hadn’t received the standard of service he should 
have when he’d contacted them about this, including that he’d had to wait an unreasonable 
amount of time before being able to speak with a manager. Creation apologised to Mr C for 
those service issues and offered to pay £30 to Mr C as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he may have incurred. Mr C wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response to his complaint, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Creation had issued 
to Mr C’s complaint – including that Creation didn’t agree to suspend the interest on the 
account and the offer of £30 compensation for the service issues – already represented a 
fair outcome to what had happened, so they didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it’s clear that Mr C feels that Creation haven’t provided a sufficient duty of 
care regarding his mental health and have acted in a non-regulatory manner by doing so. 
However, it must be acknowledged that this service isn’t a regulatory body or a Court of Law 
and doesn’t operate as such. This means that it isn’t within my remit to declare whether 
Creation have acted on a non-regulatory or unlawful manner or not. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service, with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. This means that this service doesn’t champion the cause of either the consumer 
or the business, but instead seeks to make an impartial assessment of whether an unfair 
outcome is felt to have occurred, and to instruct a business to take corrective action and/or 
pay compensation – if it’s deemed appropriate to do so.
In this instance, while I can appreciate Mr C’s concerns, I haven’t seen anything which I feel, 
in my professional capacity as a financial ombudsman, does demonstrate that Creation have 
treated Mr C unfairly, and this includes in reference to Mr C’s mental health.
One reason I say this is because it doesn’t necessarily follow that because a credit account 
holder is experiencing circumstances which negatively affect their mental health, that the 
credit provider should freeze the accrual of interest on the account. And this is especially the 
case when the account holder is requesting to clear the arrears on their account within a 
reasonable amount of time, as Mr C was in this instance.
Importantly, it’s one of the features of a credit account that the account will incur interest on 
any outstanding account balance, and Mr C agreed to this when he applied for and accepted 
the credit account. So, I don’t feel that the accrual on interest on the account should fairly be 
frozen in this instance, even taking into consideration the difficult personal and financial 
circumstances that Mr C has described. 
Indeed, the freezing of interest on a credit account often only takes place either when a 
payment plan is agreed which is then reported to the credit reference agencies or when the 
account is defaulted for non-payment – with the act of default having the effect of freezing 
the account balance and stopping all further charges and interest accrual on the account so 
that the account holder doesn’t continue to fall further into debt.
But the reporting of a payment plan to the credit reference agencies or the defaulting of a 
credit account isn’t without consequence and can adversely affect a person’s credit file for 
up to six years. And in this instance, Mr C was offering to make monthly payments to clear 
the arrears that had accrued on his account within 12-months, which was an acceptable 
timeframe for Creation such that the defaulting of the account wasn’t something they were 
imminently considering at that time. 
Creation did offer to refer Mr C to their Financial Difficulties Team, but any arrangement Mr 
C would have arrived at with hat team would, in all likelihood, have resulted in adverse 
information being reported to his credit file in relation to that agreement. And, given that Mr 
C’s didn’t want to be referred to that team, and that his account also wasn’t going to be 
defaulted, it seems fair to me that Creation would still apply interest to the account on a 
monthly basis, in line with the terms of that account.
Ultimately, while I sympathise with the difficult circumstances Mr C has experienced which 
have affected his mental health, I don’t feel this means that Creation were fairly or 
reasonably obliged to freeze the interest on his account as he would have liked. 
Creation have also explained that they took note of Mr C’s mental health issues when he first 
advised them of those issues in 2019, and that they’ve given Mr C the option of interacting 
with their Specialist Support Team and have requested further information from Mr C about 
the difficulties he’s facing, such as a note from Mr C’s doctor. This seems reasonable to me, 
and so from within the remit of this service as described previously in this letter, I don’t feel 
that Creation haven’t provided a sufficient duty of care to Mr C as he maintains. 
Creation have acknowledged that Mr C didn’t receive a fair standard of service from them 
when he spoke to them about his account, including that Mr C wasn’t transferred to a 
manager within a reasonable amount of time. Creation have apologised to Mr C for this and 
offered to pay £30 compensation to him for any trouble or upset he may have incurred in 
relation to this specific point.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but the £30 that Creation have offered Mr C 
here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that it’s commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Creation to pay, had they not already offered to do so. In arriving at this position 
I’ve considered that this compensation amount is only for the service issues Mr C has 
experienced and the impact that these specific issues may have had on him. And having 
done so, I’m satisfied that £30 is a fair amount in this instance.
All of which means I’m satisfied that the response Creation issued to Mr C in regard to his 
complaint already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what’s taken place here, 
and it follows from this that I won’t be upholding this complaint or instructing Creation to take 
any further action.
I realise this won’t be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope he’ll understand, given all 
that I’ve explained, why I’ve made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman
