DRN-3254913
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that she was unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer of 
settlement for her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. After about two years 
Mrs P re-mortgaged her house and took extra borrowing to pay off the Creation loan. 
Creation made an offer of settlement which meant the solar panels would not cost more than 
the benefit Mrs P would receive from them over a ten-year period. The offer included £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But the offer didn’t include the additional 
costs incurred by using her mortgage to repay the loan. And Creation sought to limit the 
compensatory interest to the date it initially made the offer.
Mrs P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought the offer should 
also include compensatory interest to the date of settlement, and the additional costs Mrs P 
incurred by using her mortgage to repay the loan. But the adjudicator thought Creation’s 
offer of £100 compensation was fair.
While Creation said it accepted the adjudicator’s opinion, it did not provide (within a 
reasonable time and despite several reminders) updated calculations to include the 
additional costs of the mortgage. As such I’ve been asked to issue a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for the settlement to include compensatory interest for the whole time Mrs P is 
without the money, and the additional costs she incurred through paying off the loan using 
her mortgage. 
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs P fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs P from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits. Creation followed this approach with its initial offer. 
Because the calculation shows there is a loss and Mrs P has settled the loan, Creation 
should pay her the difference between what she paid in total and what the loan should have 
been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
Because Mrs P has settled the loan by refinancing (of which Creation now has evidence 
including statements), Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
Creation should also pay £100 compensation as it previously offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs P’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
