DRN-3037788
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M purchased a sofa from a retailer in October 2019 and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation.
Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the sofa because the cushions went flat and it was 
unconfutable to sit on.
Mr M wasn’t able to resolve things with the retailer, so he raised a claim under section 75 
with Creation. Creation arranged an inspection of the sofa. The inspection report found no 
manufacturing faults and Creation rejected the claim.
Mr M wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said there wasn’t enough evidence to show 
that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr M didn’t agree. He said the cushions had started sinking when the sofa was only a few 
months old and by the time he’d been told to fluff up the cushions, the damage had already 
been done.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit  if there’s been a breach of contract. In order to uphold Mr M’s 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation, and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 wasn’t fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into 
the contract.
I’ve looked at the inspection report. This says that there isn’t a fault with the sofa, and 
advises that the sofa needs to be regularly dressed to maintain its  shape and appearance.
In order to find that there’s been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that the 
sofa had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality. There’s no evidence to suggest that 
the sofa has a fault, so I’m unable to say that there’s been a breach of contract.
I’ve also considered whether there’s been a misrepresentation. Mr M hasn’t said that he was 
given any care advice by the retailer at the point of supply. There’s no evidence that  an 
untrue statement of fact was made about the sofa which induced Mr M to enter into the 
contract.
I understand that Mr M feels frustrated and says that he wasn’t given any care instructions. 
Based on what I’ve seen, Mr M was provided with instructions on how to fluff up the 
cushions by the technician who carried out the inspection. There isn’t any evidence to 
suggest that this hasn’t resolved the issue or that the sofa isn’t of satisfactory quality.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to say that there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I don’t think that Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
