DRN-4362598
The complaint
Mr F complains about the missed payment information recorded by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd, for his credit card account.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr F got a brand new mobile telephone device from a high street retailer. To 
pay for the device, Mr F used his credit card with Creation, who offered a six month interest 
free deal on the purchase.
At the end of the six month period, Mr F hadn’t settled the purchase price of the device. So, 
Creation added interest and started to take a monthly direct debit from Mr F’s bank account. 
Mr F says he noticed a payment leave his account, so paid Creation the full cost of the 
device. He also complained to Creation and said they had breached the terms and 
conditions of the deal, which say they should have warned him the six month interest free 
period was ending. Creation responded to say they did put Mr F on notice, but they didn’t 
receive any payment from him, before the expiry of the interest free period.
Although Mr F had paid the cost of the device, he didn’t make any payments towards the 
interest. So, the balance owed to Mr F’s account increased over the following months. And in 
December 2022, Creation passed on missed payment information about the credit card to 
credit reference agencies.
In February 2023, Mr F contacted us and asked us to look into a complaint about the 
warnings he says Creation should have given him. He also complained that the information 
recorded on his credit file was inaccurate.
One of our investigators looked into Mr F’s complaint and found that the part of his complaint 
about the warnings, had been brought to us too late. She said that under our rules, Mr F 
needed to have brought that concern to us within six months of Creation’s final response 
letter. Both Mr F and Creation accepted that we couldn’t look at the first part of Mr F’s case.
However, the investigator was able to look at the missed payment information Creation had 
recorded on Mr F’s credit file. She concluded that Creation hadn’t treated Mr F fairly and the 
default information should be backdated to September 2021, around the time the payments 
were missed by Mr F.
Mr F accepted the investigator’s findings about the default information. But, Creation didn’t. 
They said they needed to give Mr F time to repay the arrears on his credit card account and 
they only applied missed payment information, when all other attempts for repayment had 
failed.
The investigator didn’t change her conclusions and now Mr F’s case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mobile telephone device was paid for using Mr F’s credit card account with Creation. 
This is a regulated form of credit, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
this sort of borrowing.
Creation and Mr F have agreed that the part of the complaint about the warnings given for 
the expiry of the interest free period, were brought to us out of time. So, I’ve not considered 
that as part of my decision. Instead, I’ve focussed on Mr F’s complaint about the recording of 
the default information.
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) suggests lenders should default an account no 
earlier than three months after the customer first started missing payments, and no later than 
six months after the first missed payment. A lender has to tell their customer they’re 
intending apply a default, to give their customer a chance to bring the account up to date, or 
to make an arrangement to pay. 
The ICO also suggests that if an arrangement to pay is agreed between the lender and their 
customer, but the customer misses a payment, the lender can default the account 
immediately. The ICO link this to a relationship breaking down between a lender and a 
borrower. Once the account is defaulted, that marker will remain on the customer’s credit file 
for six years.
I think what the ICO says here is important to Mr F’s case, because the first missed payment 
happened long before Creation applied a default marker on Mr F’s credit file. So, I’ve thought 
more about the timescales involved to decide what is fair.
Creation’s records for Mr F’s credit card show that he repaid the cost of the device in March 
2021. I can see where this left a balance owed of around £100, because of the interest that 
Creation had applied, once the interest free period had expired. I can also see that Creation 
tried to take a Direct Debit payment the following month, but this was returned unpaid.
Furthermore, I’ve looked at Creation’s contact records with Mr F from around this time. I can 
see he told them he wouldn’t be making any further repayments, in respect of the added 
interest in March 2021.
Creation’s records show that they explained the reasons why interest had been applied to 
Mr F’s account and what would happen should any missed repayments continue. But, as 
Mr F had told them he didn’t want to pay for any added interest, a repayment arrangement or 
plan wasn’t agreed.
As Creation and Mr F were unable to agree a repayment plan, I think this meant the account 
wasn’t receiving payment. It then follows that Creation could treat the account as being in 
default within the three to six month timescale I’ve summarised.
Having considered everything, I think it was clear to Creation that the relationship with Mr F 
was at stalemate and had broken down in March 2021. I also think this was confirmed once 
Mr F had cancelled the Direct Debit and then missed a payment towards his credit card in 
the following month. 
Creation say they didn’t mark the account as being in default until December 2022, because 
they wanted to exhaust all other methods of support first. I acknowledge why Creation would 
want to help Mr F. But, for the reasons I’ve explained, I think it was clear the balance of the 
credit card account wouldn’t be paid. And I think this was very evident to Creation around six 
months after the first missed payment. 
I’ve concluded that Mr F’s relationship with Creation broke down in March 2021. So, six 
months after that is September 2021.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr F’s credit file should reflect where a default should be 
applied no earlier than three months after he first missed a payment, and no later than six 
months after that first missed repayment. So, I think it’s fair for Creation to change the date 
of the default to September 2021, with the information recorded with credit reference 
agencies.
Mr F may have repaid the outstanding balance owed to his credit card account, since he first 
referred his complaint to us. If he hasn’t, it’s likely he may still have an obligation to repay 
any balance that has accrued through the interest that’s been added.
I encourage Mr F to engage with Creation about a way to repay the outstanding balance. I 
also remind Creation of their ongoing responsibility to Mr F, to treat his financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. This may mean looking at Mr F’s 
income and expenditure, to decide an appropriate level of repayment.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Change the date of the default information from December 2022 to September 2021, 
for the information recorded with credit reference agencies about Mr F’s credit card 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman
