DRN-2111460
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a buy now pay later (BNPL) credit agreement by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs G bought an item from a store I will call C. It cost £985 and she paid 
a deposit of £200. She says she was offered a credit agreement whereby it would be interest 
free if she paid off the debt within six months. She wanted to set up a direct debit to pay it off 
over the six month period, but was told that wasn’t possible. However, it was open to her to 
make manual payments. 
She checked her online account and saw that it was set up for her to pay £49 a month. She 
was concerned that she may have to pay interest and so she paid in full a few days later and 
withdrew from the agreement. She also says she was offered a 5% off voucher which was 
never given to her. She added that when she had paid off the debt, she asked that her 
information be removed from Creation’s systems, but it told her that such data was retained 
for six years.
Creation rejected her complaint and said that she had been given the correct information. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didn’t recommend it be upheld. Mrs G asked that she be refunded the 
interest she had paid.
Our investigator concluded that there had been a misunderstanding. He noted the 
agreement allowed for payments to be made before 26 May 2020 but only manual 
payments. The direct debit which had been set up for £49 would only begin after the six-
month period had elapsed. He said Mrs G wasn't required to make payments before this 
date, but she could if she so wished.
He explained that any payments to the BNPL agreement before six months were to be made 
manually and it was open to Mrs G to pay the loan off at any time in that six-month period to 
avoid interest.
He referred to Creation’s contact notes and said this seemed to have been explained to her 
when she called. Ultimately it was her decision to pay early. He added that the issue of the 
5% voucher was one for the store and not Creation. He also said that the records kept by 
Creation was not within our remit and if Mrs G had any issue, she would have to address 
those to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mrs G didn’t agree and suggested the investigator listen to the call she made to Creation. It 
was unable to send it to this service, but sent us a summary. Our investigator was satisfied 
that Mrs G had not been misled.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs G may have concluded that she might end up paying interest, but I don’t 
think Creation misled her in that regard. She took out a BNPL agreement and as is normal a 
direct debit was set up so that if the balance wasn’t paid in full within the six-month period 
Creation had the means to obtain payment from Mrs G.
It didn’t mean that the monthly payments of £49 would start immediately, but I can 
appreciate why Mrs G thought they might do. I have read the details of the conversation she 
had with Creation which I am satisfied was fair summary. Although a minor error with the 
settlement date was made this has no bearing on the substance of the complaint and would 
not have caused Mrs G any difficulty. I am satisfied the BNPL credit agreement was 
explained correctly to Mrs G, but she remained concerned that she may have to pay interest. 
In the end she paid the loan off within the six-month period and no interest was paid.
I appreciate Mrs G wanted to pay by direct debit, but Creation wasn’t obliged to accept this 
form of payment and it was open to her to make manual payments throughout the six-month 
period so that she avoided interest. It may be that she thought that the refusal to accept 
direct debits was also a refusal to accept all payments, but nothing I have seen suggest that 
was ever said he her.
In short, I believe there was misunderstanding and apart from paying the amount due earlier 
than anticipated I don’t consider Mrs G had suffered any loss. Finally, I agree that the 
matters of the voucher and the information retention are not issues for this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
