DRN-3216981
The complaint
Mr D says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Creation provided the following loan to Mr D:
Date taken
Amount
Term
Monthly repayment
Total amount payable
January 2018
£8,000
48 months
£243.30
£11,678.40
Mr D told us that if Creation had carried out proper checks and looked at information shown 
on his bank statements it should’ve realised that the loan wasn’t affordable and shouldn’t 
have been provided to him. 
 
Our investigator didn’t uphold Mr D’s complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator’s view. He told us that he was persistently stuck in 
overdraft at the bank and he sent us additional information showing the extent of his financial 
difficulty at the time, including evidence of missed direct debit payments and more 
information about his credit history.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and I’ve kept this in mind when deciding Mr D’s complaint. I’d like to reassure Mr D that I’ve 
looked at the complaint afresh – and I’ve independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan – in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules don’t say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrower’s credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrower’s overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks weren’t carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
would’ve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
should’ve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that can’t be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I’ve thought carefully about what this all means for Mr D’s complaint.
When Mr D applied for this loan, Creation asked him for information about his finances and 
carried out some credit checks. It sent us details of the information it recorded during the 
loan application process.
Mr D told Creation his take home pay was around £1,350, and looking at bank statements 
he has sent me, that seems about right. So I can’t fairly say that it wasn’t reasonable for 
Creation to have relied on this figure when carrying out its affordability assessment. 
Creation asked Mr D about his rent and what he was spending on this other credit 
commitments. 
These figures didn’t suggest that Mr D would have any difficulty meeting the loan 
repayments for this loan on top of his other likely monthly spending. 
It looked like Mr D should’ve had ample disposable income to cover the £243.30 instalment 
he had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Creation carried out showed that Mr D had no active county court 
judgements registered and none in the last 6 years and he’d had no recent defaults on his 
record (none were shown for the previous 4 years). 
Mr D says Creation should’ve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to him 
and he’s sent us information, including bank statements and an up to date credit report, to 
support what he says. 
But I think it’s fair to say that all the information Creation had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr D seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. 
It wouldn’t be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt or a 
longstanding overdraft – and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldn’t 
necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. 
I don’t think the amount of debt shown on Mr D’s credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Creation carried out was 
enough for me to say that a responsible lender should’ve realised it needed to find out more 
before lending or that Creation saw enough to realise it should’ve refused the loan 
application. 
I’d expect Creation to decide Mr D’s lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesn’t usually provide the 
same level of detail that a person’s own credit search will. And it isn’t necessarily up to date 
– that can depend on when other creditors have reported information and when it’s been 
recorded by the credit reference agency. 
A lender might only see a small portion of a borrower’s credit file, or some information might 
be missing or anonymised. I’m also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report 
to the same credit reference agencies. This means that information Mr D might see on his 
own credit check, may not have been identified by a credit check done by Creation when he 
applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to lend here – especially as there 
wasn’t anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr D wouldn’t be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. 
And I don’t think proportionate checks would’ve required Creation to probe any more deeply 
into Mr D’s finances or ask Mr D to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to send in 
his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what he had 
told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mr D might now feel the loan was unaffordable for him. But the loan documents set out the 
terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr D applied for this loan and he had to actively 
engage in the loan application process. 
The total amount he was signing up to repay over the contractual loan term, including 
interest, was set out and the agreement showed the number and amount of the payments he 
would need to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
I don’t think Creation had any reason to think that Mr D wouldn’t be able to sustainably repay 
the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main loan 
costs and Mr D said he wanted to proceed. 
I’m sorry that Mr D has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved 
difficult for him. I accept that Mr D’s actual circumstances possibly weren’t fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Creation obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr D. And I haven’t seen enough to make me think that Creation acted towards Mr D in any 
other way that wasn’t fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D and I’m sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why I’ve reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold Mr D’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman
