DRN-4001584
The complaint
Ms R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms R took out a loan with Creation in July 2021. She borrowed £25,000 over 36 months, 
repaying £800.55 a month. 
Ms R says she couldn’t afford the credit. She says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Creation had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was unaffordable for 
her. 
Creation says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Ms R and it didn’t see anything 
which might make it think she couldn’t afford the loan.
 
Our adjudicator considered that Ms R’s complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation hadn’t done necessary and proportionate checks, and if it had it wouldn’t have lent 
to Ms R. Ms R agreed with this view.
 
Creation disagreed with the view. It said that as Ms R hasn’t missed any payments that the 
loan must be affordable. It also suggested that Ms R may have mis-declared her income on 
her application form and that if she had, it couldn’t be held responsible for that. It also said 
that as Ms R said in her application that she would consolidate her debts with the money 
from the loan that it was reasonable for Creation to think that her existing debts at the point 
of application would have been paid off.
Our adjudicator reviewed this information and concluded that it did not change his opinion 
about the lending. 
As Creation did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules,guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and I’ve taken that into account when considered Ms R’s complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision
.
Creation needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Ms R had elsewhere and Ms R’s income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Creation said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Ms R 
when she took out the loan. It couldn’t provide a copy of Ms R’s credit file but it was able to 
provide the outcome of some of the checks it did. These checks showed that Ms R had an 
income of around £42,000 and that she had no County Court Judgements in the preceding 
six years and no arrears or defaults in the preceding 12 months. Their checks showed that 
she had unsecured loan repayments each month of £533 and a mortgage of around £518 a 
month. She also had a credit card balance of £8,620. It assumed that she paid 3% of that 
balance each month, costing £258.60 a month. It noted that she was using 45% of her credit 
card limits, meaning she had about £20,000 available in total on her credit card. It calculated 
that her unsecured lending equated to about 60% of her gross household income and that 
her net monthly salary was about £3,500 a month. 
Given the significant amount that Ms R was borrowing and the size of the monthly 
repayments, combined with the evidence Creation had about her significant existing 
borrowing, I think Creation ought to have done more than it did to establish the credit was 
affordable for her. I think it should have asked Ms R about her income and expenditure and 
sought evidence to verify this. 
Had it done so, I think it would have considered that the loan was unaffordable for Ms R 
To help understand Ms R’s circumstances at the time of the loan we asked to see Ms R’s 
bank statements for the three months leading up to the loan application and her credit file 
from the time. 
Ms R’s bank statements showed that her net income fluctuated. At its lowest, it was £2,800 
and at its highest it was nearly £4,000 in the three months preceding her application. Not all 
of this was earned income – some of it was from child benefit and universal credit and Ms R 
explained that she sometimes received bonuses and commission, so the higher income was 
not reflective of her usual pay. Her essential expenditure also fluctuated, and at its lowest Ms 
R was left with around £294 a month after those costs were met. That was in the month prior 
to her loan application. 
Creation says that as Ms R said she was using the loan to consolidate her debts it was 
reasonable for it to consider that her existing commitments would end – or at least be 
considerably reduced. But it didn’t ask Ms R how much she owed elsewhere or for how long 
her loans would continue. It didn’t seek an assurance that those other credit lines would be 
closed and nor did it make that a condition of the loan. So I don’t think it was fair of Creation 
to assume that Ms R’s outstanding debt elsewhere would be paid off, leaving her £800 a 
month payments for the Creation loan as her only credit commitment. 
Creation has suggested Ms R may have mis-declared her income on her application. I don’t 
think this is the case. If anything, I think Ms R marginally underdeclared it when taking into 
account her money received from other sources. Creation also noted that Ms R’s net 
monthly salary was £3,500 a month. But it wasn’t – that was her gross monthly salary on a 
£42,000 gross income. Her net salary would have been £2,685 a month, making the 
repayments on the Creation loan around 30% of her salary. Obviously, this didn’t take into 
account other credit commitments. 
Ms R’s credit file reveals that Creation’s checks did not show that Ms R had taken out a total 
of five loans in the preceding 12 months, the most recent only a month before her application 
to Creation. Although she had £8,620 owed on her credit cards, she had £20,000 of credit 
available on them in total which she could have spent at any time. While Creation calculated 
sustainable repayments on that debt would be about £258 a month, I think sustainable 
repayments which ensured Ms R paid off more than just interest on her borrowing would 
have been closer to £430 a month. Had she utilised all of her credit card balance, 
sustainable repayments would have been closer to £1,000 a month.
I can see from Ms R’s credit file that she did pay off some of her accounts, but not all of 
them. While it’s not possible to tell exactly how much was outstanding or the total amount 
she was paying for all of her credit, Ms R clearly would not have had the disposable income 
to meet new repayments of £800 a month on a consistent basis, especially if she was 
utilising all her existing credit. 
So, on the information available to me, I don’t think Creation did necessary and 
proportionate checks when it decided to lend to Ms R. And if it had done them, it ought 
reasonably have concluded that Ms R wouldn’t be able to affordably meet the repayments 
each month. So, I think Ms R lost out as a result of what Creation did wrong. 
Putting things right
Creation should not have provided the loan to Ms R. To settle this complaint Creation should 
do the following:

Add up the total amount of money Ms R received as a result of having been given 
this loan.

Subtract the repayments Ms R has made from this amount.

If this results in Ms R having paid more than she received, any overpayments must 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date of settlement.

If any capital balance remains outstanding, Creation should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Ms R. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Ms R 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.

Remove any negative information recorded on Ms R’s credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on her credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been 
cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms R a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Creation acted unfairly when it gave Ms R the loan. To put things right I 
direct Creation UK Plc to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman
