DRN-3207913
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t extended the special offer 
date for his payment under a fixed sum loan agreement that he used to pay for a sofa. 
What happened
Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in March 2020 to pay for a sofa. The price of the sofa was £1,488, he 
paid a deposit of £150 and the loan from Creation Consumer Finance was for £1,338. He 
agreed to repay the loan by 36 monthly payments of £70.31 with the first instalment due in 
March 2021. He also had the option to repay the £1,338 by a special offer date in March 
2021 with no interest being payable.
There was a delay in the sofa being delivered to Mr D because of the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic so he didn’t receive it until June 2021. He asked the 
retailer, which has since stopped trading, to extend the special offer date by which he had 
the option to repay the £1,338 without any interest being payable.
Creation Consumer Finance collected the first payment of £70.31 from him in April 2021 and 
said that the special offer date had expired, interest had been applied correctly and that it 
issued him with reminder letters in September 2020 and February 2021 about the expiration 
of the special offer date. It also said that it couldn’t locate any evidence of an extension to 
that date being processed. Mr D wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the retailer had extended the special offer date and she said that the agreement term 
supports the fact that the agreement wouldn’t have started until after he received the sofa. 
She recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: reimburse £70.31 to Mr D; 
reverse the interest charge of £437.05, so Mr D is only required to pay £1,338 (if he hasn’t 
already done so); and reinstate his credit file and reverse any adverse marker that might 
have been applied in respect of this account.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that the information from the retailer about the date being applied from 
delivery was incorrect, the agreement doesn’t state that payments will begin after delivery 
and it has never indicated to Mr D that the agreement would be adjusted. It says that Mr D 
signed the agreement and accepted the terms, there’s no record of what was discussed with 
the retailer, it shouldn’t be held accountable for any mis-information and the case was only 
brought to it April 2021, after the retailer had stopped trading. 
Mr D says Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t explained the amount of interest that it says 
he owes, he didn’t receive the letters from it in September 2020 and February 2021 and he 
was dealing with the retailer about the loan agreement.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the agreement was signed in March 2020 and the special offer date was twelve 
months later;

the delivery of the sofa was delayed because of the government imposed restrictions 
in response to the pandemic so Mr D didn’t receive it until June 2020;

Mr D’s notes show that he phoned Creation Consumer Finance in April 2020 and 
was told that he should call the retailer once the sofa had been delivered to request a 
three month payment break to be added to the “buy now – pay later” period;

the retailer wrote to Mr D in June 2020 and said: “The finance does not start coming 
out of your account until 30 days after delivery therefore your agreement has not 
started yet”;

that was incorrect information but I consider that it was reasonable for Mr D to rely on 
it at that time and to understand that the special offer date had been extended;

it was clearly Mr D’s intention that he would pay £1,338 to Creation Consumer 
Finance to repay the loan without paying any interest by the special offer date – and I 
consider that it was more likely than not that he would’ve paid that amount to 
Creation Consumer Finance by the date in March 2021 but didn’t do so because of 
the incorrect information that he’d been given by the retailer; and

I’m not persuaded that it’s fair or reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to 
charge Mr D interest in these circumstances and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to rework Mr D’s 
account to remove any interest and charges under the agreement so that the total amount 
payable by him to it for the sofa is £1,338. I consider that it should deduct from that amount 
the payment of £70.31 that it’s collected from Mr D (and any other payments that Mr D has 
made under the agreement) and notify Mr D of the net amount due from him. Provided that 
he pays that amount to it within 30 days of that notification I consider that it should then end 
the fixed sum loan agreement. If Mr D doesn’t make the payment within that period I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to then apply 
the terms of the agreement to the outstanding amount due from him.
If Creation Consumer Finance has recorded any adverse information relating to the fixed 
sum loan agreement on Mr D’s credit file, I consider that it should remove that information.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Rework Mr D’s account so that the total amount payable by him to it for the sofa is 
£1,338 (as described above).
2.
Remove any adverse information relating to the fixed sum loan agreement that it’s 
recorded on Mr D’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
