DRN-2836186
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) didn’t tell him when his 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) plan ended. So, he paid interest that he would like refunded. He 
would also like Creation to update its processes to make it clearer when payments are due
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view reached by our investigator for the following reasons: -

BNPL plans give consumers the opportunity to avoid interest payments if the full 
cash price is paid on or before the end of the BNPL plan. Mr A bought goods on 4 
August 2020 but didn’t make the full payment by 4 February 2021 which he needed 
to do so to avoid interest. As he didn’t make the payment in time, I don’t think 
Creation were wrong to apply interest to his account

Mr A says he was never told when the payment due date was. I can’t be sure what 
he was told at the point of sale. But I have seen his statements for December 2020 
and January 2021. Both statements state the BNPL period is due to end and state in 
bold the end date of the plan (4 February 2021). So, I do think Mr A had the 
information he needed to pay off the balance and avoid interest.

Mr A has told us he had difficulty logging on last year, I am not sure why  but if he 
was unsure when his plan ended, he could’ve contacted Creation by phone to check. 

Mr A would like Creation to alter its processes to make payments dates clearer. I do 
think this information was clear on the statements. But it’s not for us to tell 
businesses to alter its processes.
My final decision
My final decision  is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
