DRN-4045901
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim she’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”).
Ms S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer 
to Ms S throughout.
What happened
In December 2013, Ms S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £9,500 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The loan amount was for £9,500 
and the total amount payable under the agreement was £14,946 and it was due to be paid 
back with 120 monthly repayments of £124.55.
Creation told us that they received Ms S’s letter of complaint on 15 July 2020. In the 
complaint Ms S explained that she considered she had a valid claim against it under s75 
due to misrepresentation and breach of contract by P. Ms S said she’d been told she 
could be entitled to a solar panel system at no cost to her. She says she was told the 
system would be fully self-funding. 
In summary, Ms S says:

P’s representative misled her that the system would pay for itself within 8 years 
and then she would have many years of reduced electricity bills which would be 
profit.

P told her the FIT payments and savings she would make would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments.

P told Ms S she would save in excess of £10,000 due to the supply of LED light 
bulbs.

P told Ms S that installing solar panels would reduce the council tax bill by 50%.

She was induced into the agreement by false statements from P. She wouldn’t 
have entered into the agreement had it not been for those statements.
On the basis of the above Ms S said she had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. 
To resolve the claim and complaint, Ms S requested that Creation should make a payment 
to settle the matter.
Creation told us that they received Ms S’s letter of complaint on 15 July 2020. Creation did 
not provide a final response letter to the complaint initially and so the complaint was 
referred to this service on 14 October 2020. Creation issued a final response letter on 6 
November 2020. Creation rejected Ms S’s complaint on the basis it was made out of time 
based on their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. Creation did not comment on the 
s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of contract. Whilst the complaint to Creation did 
not mention Section 140A (s140A) of the CCA, in bringing the complaint to this service, 
Ms S raised an alleged failure under that part of the Act. Creation has not responded to 
the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response.
Ms S wasn’t happy with the response to the complaint so asked us to review the 
complaint.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred. Consequently, 
Creation believe that it has no liability to Ms S under said Act and so they have no liability 
under s75 of the CCA.
I have taken this to mean that Creation have rejected Ms S’s s75 claim for 
misrepresentation on the basis it was ‘time-barred’ taking into account the Limitation Act 
1980 (the ‘LA’). 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 14 October 
2020, which is the date when Ms S’s representative sent details of her complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Ms S’s s75 complaint. I will then 
consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Ms S’s complaint in relation to an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (s140A) of the CCA, before turning to 
the merits of the complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Ms S brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 14 October 2020 
before the final response letter had been issued but three months after raising the 
complaint with Creation. The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful 
rejection of Ms S’s s75 claim on 6 November 2020. So, her complaint in relation to the s75 
claim was brought in time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction because Ms S was 
not happy with the answer in the final response letter.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Ms S’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Ms S is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between herself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship was still running when the complaint was brought to this 
service. The complaint in relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service on 14 
October 2020. So, the s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event 
complained of and has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about an alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into during December 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that P (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 15 July 2020, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against P for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around December 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by P can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming P to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations P carried out direct with Ms S.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider P’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Ms S.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Ms S and P.
Ms S told us she was informed she could be entitled to have a Solar System at absolutely 
no cost to her. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Ms S’s allegation she was told it would be self-funding. Apart from the 
loan agreement I have seen little from the time of the sale that speaks to the complaint 
points. 
The loan agreement sets out Ms S’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. And the Solar Assessment Order Form contains a section that 
describes the ‘Potential Income – Savings’ which does not provide a clear picture of the 
likely financial benefits from the system. I say that because the amount for income from 
Feed In Tariff payments in year one is said to be over £25,000. But the Total potential 
income in year one is said to be around £400. In the absence of clarity in the 
documentation that was received by Ms S at the time I think that Ms S would placed 
weight on what she was told by P at that time. 
I must consider all the submissions made to me in a complaint. But I am also able to 
consider other relevant information. In this case I have considered that in 2014 P were 
found to be in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code in September 2014. And 
one of the breaches was found to be that consumers may have been misled about the 
costs of the loan being met fully by income generated from the solar panels. So, this 
seems to support what Ms S told us; that the solar panels cost would be fully met from the 
income and savings they could generate. So, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that P did tell Ms S the scheme would be self-funding. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Ms S had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before P contacted her. Ms S has said she only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Ms S would have agreed to install a solar panel system if her monthly 
outgoings would increase.
Ms S told us that P told her the income from the solar panel system would pay off the 
agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Ms S’s testimony seemed 
persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that 
Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that P did tell Ms S the scheme would be self-funding.  On balance, I find Ms S’s account 
to be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,494.60 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Ms S’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
she’s achieved this benefit. The FIT statements I’ve seen do not seem to be complete but 
they don’t seems to suggest that Ms S was achieving the kind of benefits that would have 
made the loan self-funding. I’ve not been supplied a full set of copies of Ms S’s electricity 
bills, so I don’t know what savings she made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s 
more likely than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Ms S made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely P gave Ms S a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Ms S was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But even if they did not have that effect, they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Ms S went into the transaction. Either
way, P’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Ms S’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Ms S in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Ms S and Creation to have been unfair.
Ms S has had to pay more than she expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Ms S otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Ms S fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Ms S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Ms S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Ms S’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Ms S received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Ms S received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Ms S will need to supply up to date
details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to
Creation. Creation can use assumptions when information is not available – if, for
example, the electricity company has gone out of business. Ms S should let us know
in response to this decision if she’s unable to supply any of the relevant FIT benefits, 
electricity bills and meter reading, and the reasons why.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Ms S made towards the loan up until she repaid
it – A

Use Ms S’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Ms S should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Ms S paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Ms S paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and
meter readings Creation should pay Ms S C + F
I agree Creation’s failure to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Ms S
some further inconvenience. And I think the £200 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms S’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
