 
 
DRN-5036944 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) defaulted her account and 
treated her unfairly.  
What happened 
In September 2017, Miss R took out a loan at the retailer to buy a sofa. The loan was 
provided by Creation. The loan was: 
 
Date 
Amount 
Interest Rate 
Term 
Monthly 
Payments 
18 September 2017 
£1,088 
0% per annum 
49 months 
£22.66 
 
Some payments were missed up to May 2019, but payments were then brought up to date. 
 
But then further payments were missed – in November 2019, December 2019, January 
2020, February 2020, March 2020, April 2020, May 2020, and June 2020. By April 2020, 
Miss R was four months in the arrears. 
 
Creation wrote letters to Miss R on 16 January 2020, 23 January 2020, 4 March 2020, 7 
April 2020, 21 April 2020, 5 May 2020, 1 July 2020, 31 August 2020, 18 January 2021, 28 
April 2021 and 2 December 2021. 
 
The letter dated 4 March 2020 was a Notice of Default – the balance was £568.84. 
The last payment made was in December 2020 - £30. 
Creation defaulted the account on 1 April 2020 with the balance £568.84. The payments 
for a time were monitored by a debt collection agency (a DCA) and then it was taken 
back in    
house to Creation. But after that, the account was sold to another debt collection agency 
in February 2022. The balance was £538.84. 
 
Miss R complained. She said: 
 
- The default was unfair as she had tried to call Creation many times but got 
nowhere. 
She says Creation couldn’t identify her because of additional digit (an ‘a’) in her 
name. 
 
- The loan agreement was wrong as there was an ‘a’ included in her name. 
 
- The identification used by the retailer wasn’t valid - it was a young person’s 
discount card. 
 
 
 
- She says the default should be removed and compensation of £850 paid to her. 
 
Creation didn’t uphold Miss R’s complaint and said: 
 
- Some of the information is limited due to how long ago this happened. 
 
- The original loan agreement had Miss R’s name as different as it contained one 
more digit, and the address was different to the one she was living at when 
Creation sent their final response. 
 
- Miss R’s address was changed in 2019 in Creation’s records. 
 
- Payments were missed from May 2019 onwards when direct debits were returned 
by her bank. 
 
- In 2020, Creation passed the account to a debt collection agency (DCA) to 
manage the payments. 
 
- But then, as no payments were made, the debt was sold to another DCA – in 
February 2022. 
 
- Due to the missed payments, the account was defaulted on 1 April 2020. A Default 
Notice letter was sent 30 days before the default was applied. 
 
Miss R brought her complaint to us. Our investigator issued two views and the second one 
upheld the complaint. He said: 
 
- The account fell into arrears. 
 
- But - Creation didn’t respond to the efforts made by Miss R to put things right. 
 
- Creation weren’t able to identify Miss R when she called because of the additional 
digit in her name in their records. 
 
- So, he said Creation should remove the default from her credit file; and waive late 
payment charges. 
 
- Creation should take back the loan from the DCA and agree a repayment program 
with Miss R. 
 
Miss R agreed but raised again the issue of the ID used. Creation didn’t respond, and so 
the complaint has come to me to look into. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I made a provisional decision which didn’t uphold Miss R’s complaint. It said: 
 
 
Miss R’s complaint makes the following points which I’ve considered: 
 
- 
That there was an additional digit in her name in Creation’s records and in the 
loan agreement. 
 
 
 
- 
The loan agreement is void because of the misspelling. And this also meant 
that Creation couldn’t identify her when she called the firm. 
 
- 
The ID document used in the retailer store was a ’young person’s’ ID card and 
that wasn’t a valid form of ID. 
 
- 
The direct debits were returned in error – as there was enough money in her 
bank account to meet the payments. 
 
- 
She changed her address – and it’s possible the letters were sent to her old address. 
 
- 
Most importantly - she made every effort to call Creation to explain her situation 
and to come to an arrangement with the firm. She made contact with the two 
DCAs – which shows she was trying to sort her situation out. This must also mean 
that Creation couldn’t identify her when she called to discuss her account. 
 
Additional digit in Miss R’s name: 
 
I can see that there was an additional ‘a’ in Miss R’s surname on the loan agreement. But 
I don’t think this means the agreement is not valid – as it was properly set out in all other 
respects and quoted her (then) correct address. And as she then took out the loan (to 
buy the sofa) and made a number of payments to the loan - she did take out the loan. On 
that basis, I’m satisfied that the loan agreement was valid. 
 
ID document used at the retailer: 
 
I asked Creation about this and they told us the application records showed a passport 
was used. In this case, we can’t expect Creation to be responsible for the actions of the 
retailer, but only act on the information they were given. 
 
Direct debits returned in error: 
 
I’ve reviewed the bank statements for Miss R’s bank account from November 2019 to July 
2020 – and each one showed the monthly direct debit was not paid; and it doesn’t look like 
there was enough money in the account to cover the direct debits. So, I’m satisfied that it is 
likely that the direct debits were returned by Miss R’s bank for lack of funds. 
 
I also reviewed the letters sent to Miss R by Creation between January 2020 and 
December 2021 – and many of them advised her that the direct debit payments hadn’t 
been made and asked her to make payments to her loan account. So here – I consider 
Creation’s letters were clear. 
 
Change of address: 
 
Miss R showed us she changed address on 1 April 2019. We asked Creation when her 
address was changed in the firm’s records – and it was on 4 June 2019. And so – the 
letters sent out about the loan account were sent to the correct address. 
 
Letters: 
 
I reviewed the letters sent to Miss R by Creation. 
 
Looking at the period in question – when the arrears built up (from November 2019 
onwards). I’m satisfied that Creation sent clear letters that advised Miss R that the direct 
debits had not been paid, and that arrears were building up – and what would happen if 
 
 
the loan continued in arrears. 
 
The Notice of Default dated 4 March 2020 clearly set out the arrears and the further action 
that might take place if the arrears weren’t paid and said that a default could follow. 
Creation then made formal demand for repayment of the balance on 7 April 2020. 
 
So, I’m satisfied that Creation clearly communicated with Miss R throughout the period in 
question; and the letters were sent to Miss R’s correct address. 
 
Calls to Creation: 
 
This is the crux of this complaint - as Miss R says she called Creation about her situation. 
And she says Creation couldn’t identify her because of the additional digit in her name in 
their records. We asked Creation for their detailed customer notes - but the firm told us 
they don’t have those as they were deleted when the account was sold to the DCA. 
 
We asked Miss R for her phone records to show she called Creation, and when. But she 
can’t provide those. 
 
We spoke to Miss R to get more details about her complaint – and she told us that she’d 
contacted the DCAs and her name was wrong in their records. And therefore, Creation 
must have had the wrong name in their records and had passed the wrong information to 
the DCAs. 
 
Because we have either conflicting, or no evidence on these points, I asked more 
questions of Creation. The firm showed us that while detailed notes of calls aren’t held, 
they showed their records that showed: 
 
- 
Miss R did call Creation on 4 June 2019, 30 December 2020, 2 January 2021 – 
and she made some ‘promises to pay’ on those calls. 
 
- 
Miss R contacted Creation on 10 July 2019, 6 August 2019, 10 August 2019, 12 
September 2019 and 7 October 2020. Two of the calls were about changing 
direct debit payment dates. 
 
- 
And Creation called Miss R on 29 June 2019, 28 August 2019, 23 September 2019, 
17 December 2019. 
 
So, while exactly what was said on those calls isn’t recorded, there is enough information 
here for me to conclude that Creation could identify Miss R in their records – so the 
missing digit didn’t appear to be a cause of any problems. 
 
I can also see that in the various letters that Miss R was sent – these quoted the loan 
account number and agreement number – which could’ve been quoted if there was any 
problem with identification. 
 
And while the content of the calls isn’t recorded in detail, it looks like promises to pay were 
made by Miss R on 4 June 2019, 29 June 2019, 28 August 2019, 23 September 2019, 
and 17 December 2019. While this was before most of the arrears built up, it does confirm 
there didn’t appear to be a problem with identifying Miss R in Creation’s records. 
 
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory (as some of it is 
here) I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is – what’s more likely 
than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the available 
evidence. 
 
 
 
And, for the reasons I’ve outlined, I’m persuaded that: 
 
- Creation sent Miss R clear and many letters about her loan. And they were sent to 
her new/changed address. 
 
- Creation could identify Miss R in their records when she called – so this cannot, on 
balance, have caused any problems. 
 
- The extra digit in Miss R’s names on the loan agreement doesn’t mean it is not 
valid. 
 
- The direct debits were probably not returned by Miss R’s bank in error. But if Miss 
R maintains her bank made an error – she should complain to that bank. 
 
- Miss R’s point about the retailer accepting an unsatisfactory form of ID – I cannot 
hold Creation responsible if that was the case 
 
So, on balance, I am proposing to not uphold this complaint – which means Creation don’t 
have to do anything. 
 
But if either Miss R or Creation wish to provide new evidence, I will review that before 
making a final decision. 
 
Responses to the provisional decision: 
 
Creation agreed with it, but Miss R didn’t. She made the following points (in summary): 
 
- There was money in her account  when the direct debits weren’t paid. The 
payments were suspended while her complaint to Creation was being looked into. 
 
- She didn’t get any letters from Creation, only from the debt collection agencies 
(DCAs). 
 
- She said again that the use of a young person’s card as ID wasn’t satisfactory. A 
finance agreement was created on the back of false ID. 
 
- She said the error in the spelling of her name does matter. She said she used her 
mother’s account, tried to make a payment and when the bank tried a 
‘confirmation of payee’ option, it was returned ‘no account in that name’. This was 
evidence that a letter did make a difference.   
 
- She repeated that each time she contacted Creation they could not identify her 
because of the additional letter in her name. 
 
I now need to review this further submission and make a final decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate the further work that Miss R has put in in response to the provisional decision. I 
have reviewed her complaint again thoroughly and considered the points she has made.  
 
 
And here, it’s important to note that we make decisions based on the balance of all the 
evidence we can see, and in the circumstances of each case. It’s also important to note that 
we do not act for the consumer (Miss R in this case), but we take evidence from both parties 
involved and make a balanced decision which we believe is fair to both sides of the 
complaint. 
Looking at the points Miss R has made: 
There was money in her bank account to make the direct debit payments: I looked at Miss 
R’s bank statements again – between November 2019 to July 2020. In each month (other 
than December 2019 – when the direct debit was paid), the account was overdrawn and the 
statement was marked ‘returned direct debit’. Typically this means there was a lack of funds 
to meet the debit. And I’ve seen letters from Creation that were sent to Miss R to say that. 
So, I’m satisfied that was the reason for the returned payments. As I said, If Miss R wishes 
to take his up with her bank, she should do so. 
She didn’t receive any letters from Creation: I looked at Creation’s records again and am 
satisfied these were sent by Creation - and to Miss R’s correct address. As a service, we 
take the view that once a letter had been sent properly, we can’t hold the firm responsible if it 
wasn’t delivered. 
ID document: as I explained, we can’t hold Creation responsible for what happened at the 
retailer. Creation told us a passport was used, and we must accept that to be the case. But 
in any case, I don’t think this affects the outcome of the complaint – there isn’t a dispute that 
Miss R herself borrowed the money for the sofa (and not anyone else). 
Spelling of Miss R’s name: the evidence she put to us related to the confirmation of payee 
(COP) service offered by most large banks – when making a faster payment. I’ve considered 
this again, and I don’t think that means that Creation couldn’t have been able to identify Miss 
R when she called them. The two services are different. And as I said in the provisional 
decision, there is evidence that she did speak to Creation several times (even though there 
isn’t a recording of the calls or their contents) – so there couldn’t have been a problem in 
getting identified. 
I accept that Miss R feels very strongly about her complaint and has argued consistently in 
support of her case. She will therefore  be disappointed by my final decision, but I’m not 
asking Creation to do anything here. (continued) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision 
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2024. 
  
 
Martin Lord 
Ombudsman 
 
