DRN-3570569
The complaint
Mr A complains about a default recorded with one or more third party credit reference 
agencies, by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), in respect of a fixed sum loan 
agreement (“agreement”) he took out with it in December 2017.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr A purchased some furniture from a company that I will call “B”, which 
was delivered in March 2018. The price of the furniture was £4,615. Mr A paid a deposit of 
£1,386 and ‘financed’ the balance of £3,229 under the agreement subject to this complaint.
Under the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr A undertook to make (to Creation) 
one monthly direct debit (“DD”) payment of £89.69, followed by 34 monthly DD payments of 
£89.69 and then a final one monthly DD payment of £89.69, making a total repayable of 
£3,228.84 (36 x £89.69) at an APR of 0%.
Mr A made 34 monthly payments to Creation of £89.69 (April 2018 to January 2021) before 
cancelling his DD. This meant Mr A still owed Creation under the agreement £179.38 
(2 x £89.69).
Between 16 February 2021 and 2 April 2021 Creation says it sent Mr A (to the address it 
held on file for Mr A and which Mr A had provided it with) seven letters in respect of his 
agreement status.
On 21 April 2021 Creation says it sent Mr A (to the address it held on file for Mr A and which 
Mr A had provided it with) a default notice in respect of his agreement.
Mr A didn’t respond to any of the above letters because he had moved, something Creation 
says it wasn’t aware of in early 2021. And having not received any responses from Mr A to 
its various letters, Creation took the decision to record (in May 2021) Mr A’s agreement as 
being in default with one or more third party credit reference agencies. Creation then 
transferred the debt (for collection) to a third party that I will call “M”. 
On 22 June 2021 M wrote to Mr A at his new address to seek payment of £234.38 (£179.38 
arrears plus £55 in fees).
On 5 August 2021 Creation wrote to Mr A at his new address to seek payment of £234.38 
(£179.38 arrears plus £55 in fees).
Having received one, or both, of the above letters seeking payment of £234.38, Mr A 
contacted Creation. Creation agreed to waive the £55 in fees and to accept from Mr A, in full 
and final settlement of his agreement liability, £179.38. 
Mr A says he understood, on payment of £179.38, that any adverse information that had 
been recorded by Creation with one or more third party credit reference agencies would be 
removed. However, this wasn’t the case. Instead what Creation did was amend the default 
record to show the same as settled/satisfied.
Mr A became aware that Creation hadn’t removed the adverse information recorded with 
one or more third party credit reference agencies when he was refused a remortgage.
Following his remortgage refusal Mr A contacted Creation to ask for all the adverse 
information that had been recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies be 
removed because this had come to be recoded as a result of a simple misunderstanding.
Having not got a response form Creation, or at least a satisfactory one, Mr A referred 
matters to our service in March 2022.
In May 2022 Creation sent Mr A its final response letter (“FRL”). Creation explained, under 
cover of this FRL, why it wasn’t prepared to remove the adverse information it had recorded 
with one or more third party credit reference agencies in May 2021 and which it had 
amended in August 2021.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Creation had done nothing wrong in not removing the default recorded with one or more third 
party credit reference agencies.
Mr A didn’t agree with the investigator’s view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision. In disagreeing with the investigator’s view, Mr A said:

he disputes Creation didn’t have his new address especially given the furniture was 
sent by B to his new address and given Creation confirmed (in his call with it in 
August 2021) that it did indeed hold details of both his new and old address

he finds it strange that Creation has only been able to provide templates of the letters 
it says it sent him (to his old address) and not copies of the actual letters it sent him 
(to his old address)

when he called Creation in August 2021 he was advised that paying late, as he had, 
wouldn’t affect his credit rating.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear that Mr A has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr A will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Mr A doesn’t dispute that he failed to make, in good time, what he owed Creation under his 
agreement with it. But he says this was as a result of a simple misunderstanding on his part 
and nothing more. And for this reason, Creation should remove the adverse information it 
has recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies.
I can understand Mr A’s point. But equally financial businesses have a duty to report 
accurately to third party credit reference agencies the conduct of its customers’ accounts. 
And if they didn’t do so, then confidence in what third party credit reference agencies hold 
and share (in particular with businesses looking to grant credit) would be seriously 
undermined. 
So, I’m satisfied that what Creation has recorded with one or more third party credit 
reference agencies, in respect of Mr A’s agreement, is accurate.
I will now address the points Mr A raised in his response to the investigator’s view not 
upholding his complaint.
For various reasons Mr A says he disputes Creation didn’t hold, at the relevant time, his new 
address. But I’m satisfied that Creation wasn’t aware of Mr A’s new address until M advised 
it of it on 26 May 2021. I’ve come to this conclusion based on, amongst other things, 
contemporaneous system notes provided by Creation confirming this to be the case and 
because I find Creation’s submission that M had been successful in ‘tracing’ Mr A, where it 
hadn’t, to be both plausible and persuasive. 
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that just because B held Mr A’s new address 
– for delivery purposes – doesn’t mean Creation would have done so. It’s also my view that 
Creation wouldn’t have needed Mr A’s new address, nor would it have requested it, in order 
to assess/underwrite his finance application. 
Mr A says he finds it strange that Creation is only able to provide templates of the letters it 
sent, and not ‘actual’ copies. However, I can confirm this isn’t unusual. Furthermore, having 
had sight of Creation’s contemporaneous system notes I’m satisfied that it sent the seven 
letters it said it sent between 16 February 2021 and 2 April 2021 and the default notice it 
said it sent on 21 April 2021.
Mr A says that during a call he made to Creation in August 2021 he was advised that paying 
late, as he had, wouldn’t affect his credit rating and that Creation held both his addresses.
Unfortunately, Creation has been unable to provide our service with a recording of this call, 
but this isn’t unusual and isn’t indicative of anything untoward. But I don’t need a recording of 
this call to fairly decide this complaint.
I say this because even had Mr A been advised what he says he was advised I’m not 
persuaded that such advice has caused him any prejudice. In other words, it’s my view that 
Mr A would have still paid Creation what he paid it, when he paid it, even had he been 
advised that the default recorded with one or more credit reference agencies would remain 
but marked as settled/satisfied. I’m also of the view that advising Mr A that it held both his 
addresses, if indeed that is what Creation advised, wasn’t incorrect because in August 2021 
Creation did indeed hold both of Mr A’s addresses. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed, but I’m satisfied that in the particular circumstances of 
this case Creation has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
