DRN-3675713
The complaint
Miss F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), irresponsibly granted 
her a credit account with Currys. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss F entered into a credit agreement with Currys. She was given a 
credit limit facility of £4,000 on her account.
In May 2021 Miss F purchased two smartphones using the account. Miss F says that 
Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks when she used the credit facility to 
purchase the smartphones. She says if it had, it would have seen she couldn’t afford to 
repay the credit. She also says that since Creation had previously turned her down for other 
purchases, it ought not to have allowed her to make these further purchases.
Creation said it properly assessed Miss F’s financial circumstances when granting her the 
credit facility. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably, having approved the initial agreement, and so it didn’t need to do 
anything more for this transaction.
Miss F didn’t agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account, I think Creation  gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss F about her ability to repay. This included relying on information on 
her account application that included details about her income and residential status. It also 
completed a credit check which showed no adverse information in relation to her existing 
unsecured debt. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesn’t 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, I’ve thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Having considered the information and evidence gathered by Creation, I’m satisfied that the 
checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Miss F. I say this because based on the data it used for her income and regular committed 
expenditure, it looks as if she had enough disposable income to manage the account and 
there wasn’t any suggestion of her experiencing significant financial difficulty based on her 
credit checks. For these reasons, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly when approving the 
finance application.
I’ve seen that prior to purchasing the smartphones, Miss F had started but not completed a 
number of online transactions on the account in relation to other purchases. It looks as if she 
didn’t complete the online purchase process. In other words, it wasn’t because Creation was 
rejecting those transactions due to Miss F having affordability issues. By contrast, when Miss 
F purchased the smartphones she properly completed the online transaction process. 
Creation has told us that it wasn’t able to carry out the direct debit instruction to take the 
initial account payment for the smartphones and that this led to a fee being applied to the 
account. Soon after that, Miss F contacted Creation to explain that her financial 
circumstances weren’t good and as a result she’d be unable to make the repayments. She 
said this due to the smartphones having been stolen from her home before she had been 
able to sell them in order to raise funds for herself. 
I understand that Miss F may have gone on to purchase a further three smartphones on her 
account, although the majority of the balance owing on the account has since been cleared. 
Finally, Miss F recently showed us a letter Creation sent her declining credit but it’s not clear 
which transaction or transactions this relates to. But I don’t consider this to be something 
that affects my findings.
It follows that, given that the account credit limit had been approved several months earlier, I 
don’t consider that it was necessary for Creation to carry out any further checks to see if 
Miss F was able to afford the credit. I’m satisfied Creation carried out proportionate checks 
when it agreed the credit account. So I don’t think it acted unfairly in allowing Miss F to use 
the account to purchase the two smartphones. I’m therefore not persuaded that Creation has 
acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
