DRN-3043519
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act (“the CCA”) 
 
What happened
Ms P was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, she agreed to enter into a contact with the installer for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system.  To pay for this she also agreed to enter into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
Ms P made a claim under section 75 of the CCA. She said the installer had told her the solar 
panels would be “self -funded”, and that the monthly loan repayment costs would be more 
than offset by the feed in tariff (“FIT”) income.  But that hadn’t happened, instead the monthly 
repayments had been much higher that the income. 
As Ms P was unhappy with the response she got from Creation, she brought her complaint 
to our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle the complaint.  Creation took into 
account Ms P’s circumstances and offered to buy back the debt from the debt collectors, 
calculate the benefits that Ms P would have received from the panels until she sold the 
property in January 2019, and write off the balance of the loan. Because Ms P had already 
paid more than the calculated benefits Creation would return the overpayments plus 8 % 
interest on the over payment from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  It also 
offered £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter had caused Ms P.  One of 
our investigators wrote to Ms P and explained they felt the offer was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.  
Ms P accepted the offer, and case was closed on an informal basis.   Ms P got back in touch 
with this service some months later, as the settlement had not been paid.  Despite the best 
efforts of the investigator and Ms P, that remains the case.  To date Creation has not clearly 
explained why it has not been able to make the settlement offered to resolve this case.   As 
a result, the case has been re-opened and passed to me to make formal determination. The 
investigator has also said that these delays will have caused Ms P further distress and 
recommended an increase in the trouble and upset payment to £400.    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a full review of the file, there seems to be no dispute here on the complaint brought by 
Ms P.  Creation have made an offer of settlement that they felt was fair, and Ms P accepted.  
For some reason, settlement has not been made and therefore the complaint is not resolved. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality.  My role is to 
arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
I agree with the investigator that the offer made by Creation is fair under the circumstances 
of the complaint. 
I’ve also considered the additional distress the delays in settling this matter will have caused 
Ms P.  It’s clear that the financial and emotional impact of this issue dragging on has been 
significant, and as such I consider the payment of £100 for distress and inconvenience 
should be increased to £400 in recognition of this. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Ms P’s complaint should be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Limited, if it has not already done so, to:
a) Buy back the debt from the debt collector.
b) Return to Ms P the overpayments, based on the estimated benefits of the period she 
had the panels, as previously calculated. 
c)
Add 8% interest on this sum from the date the overpayment was made to the date of 
settlement. 
d) Pay Ms P £400 for the trouble and upset caused.  
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms P how much it has taken off.  It should 
also give Ms P a certificate showing this, should she ask for one, so she can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman
