DRN-1278249
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) reduced the credit limit on her 
account. 
What happened
Mrs B had a credit limit of £4,000 on her Creation account which she opened in 2016. In 
2018, Creation wrote to her to explain it was reducing the limit to £1,350. Mrs B wasn't 
happy with this. She said she had a good credit history and her repayment history to 
Creation was excellent. She complained to Creation asking for the reason behind its 
decision to reduce her credit limit.
Creation explained it was entitled to review and reduce the credit limit at any point, and it 
wasn't required to provide Mrs B with a reason for this. Unhappy with this response, Mrs B 
referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He explained Creation wasn't required to 
provide Mrs B with a reason for the reduction in credit limit and was entitled to do what it 
had. 
Mrs B didn't agree. She said this matter had affected her credit rating and wanted a reason 
for the reduction in her credit limit. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it's been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, and for the same reasons.
Creation is entitled to periodically review Mrs B's account. And it's terms and conditions 
allow it to reduce the credit limit on her account. Whilst it is frustrating for Mrs B as she 
wanted to use the credit to purchase something, this is still something Creation is allowed to 
do.
I understand why Mrs B will be upset not knowing why her credit limit has reduced. But I'm 
afraid this isn't information Creation is required to provide.
I know Mrs B says this has impacted her credit rating. But she hasn't provided any evidence 
of this. It seems unlikely to me this would impact her credit file. But even if it had, I've 
explained that I don't think Creation has done anything wrong. So I couldn't ask it to make 
any changes.
I recognise Mrs B will remain upset with Creation's decisions and not knowing why it made 
them. But I'm afraid I don't think it's acted incorrectly. So I won't be asking it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman
