DRN-3042756
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (“the CCA”) 
What happened
Mr A was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, Mr A agreed to enter a contract with the installer for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system to his property. To pay for this Mr A also agreed to enter into 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
Mr A later made a claim under section 75 of the CCA. He said that the panels were 
underperforming against what he was promised by the installer. He said the installer had 
confirmed there had been a mistake in the original quote, but then entered administration.  
Mr A wasn’t happy with how Creation had responded to his claim and said he had agreed 
with Creation he would not pay anything on his loan until the matter was resolved, but the 
debt was later sold on to a third party. As a result, his credit report had been adversely 
affected.   
As Mr A was not happy with the response he got from Creation, he brought the complaint to 
our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle the complaint. Creation said it 
had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr A over the term of the loan. It said it 
would restructure the loan so that Mr A would pay no more than this over the loan term. This 
reduced the cost of the loan from £17,858.80 to £6,537.52. Creation gave Mr A four options 
to consider how the new, lower loan could continue. It also offered to pay Mr A £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr A was not willing to accept the offer, as he was still concerned about his credit rating and 
that his debt had been sold to a third party. As Creation did not respond on this point, the 
case was passed to decision. Creation later confirmed that it would buy back the debt and 
amend Mr A’s credit file. 
As Mr A did not accept the offer, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that during the sales meeting for the solar panels, he was mis-led about the 
benefits of the panels, and this is what induced him into entering into the contract with the 
installer. As Creation have made an offer to resolve the complaint, this decision will deal with 
whether I think that offer to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services, fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality. In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
I’ve considered if it would be reasonable to put Mr A back into the position, he would have 
been in had there been no misrepresentation. However, here I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the panels from his home. Rather, I think the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr A into a position where the panels are cost neutral over the 
original term of the loan, meaning that he isn’t disadvantaged by any misrepresentation. By 
allowing Mr A to keep the panels I’m satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower electricity 
bills and FIT payments going forward. 
I’ve considered the methodology Creation have submitted to this service to calculate the 
offer they made. The methodology is based on a combination of actual performance and 
estimated future performance on the system. 
When calculating the estimated future benefits Creation has set out that it will use a number 
of assumptions, these include the self-consumption rate, electricity price inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). I’m of the view that these appear 
reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. In summary I’m satisfied that the 
assumptions used provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
By making the solar panel system cost neutral, or self-funding, Mr A’s monthly payments will 
reduce, this means that he would previously have been paying more each month that he 
should have done. And this means he would have been deprived of any monthly 
overpayment; I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date an 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement.  
Creation has given Mr A four options as to how any over payment and associated interest 
can be used. The original offer provided exact figures based on the loan situation at the time, 
however these will need to be updated to reflect the current situation. However, in principle 
the options are 
1) The overpayments are used to reduce any outstanding balance of the loan and Mr A 
continues to pay the currently monthly payment, and the loan finishes early
2) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan, and Mr A 
pays the new lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term
3) The overpayments are returned to Mr A he continues to pay their current monthly 
loan payments, resulting in the loan finishing early or
4) The loan over payments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new lower monthly loan 
payment until the end of the loan.
If Mr A decides to accept the decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which of 
the four options he would like to accept.  
I am also satisfied that Creation’s offer to buy back the debt from the third party and ensure 
that Mr A’s credit file doesn’t suffer any damage due to the loan to date is fair under the 
circumstances. 
I also consider the proposed award of £100 for the trouble and upset caused to be fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr A’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
a) Allow Mr A to keep the solar panel system
b) Estimate the potential savings and income to Mr A over the loan term and rework it 
so that he pays no more than this.  Where possible they should use Mr A’s electricity 
bills and FIT statements to do this 
c)
Add 8 % simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement *
d) Allow Mr A to decide how he would like his overpayment and associated interest to 
be used, using the four options above
e) Take appropriate steps to remedy any negative impact on Mr A’s credit file caused by 
the loan to date, and
f)
Pay Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset caused
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr A how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a certificate showing this, should he ask for one, so he can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman
