 
 
DRN-4948333 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In July 2015, Mr S bought two solar panel systems (‘the systems’), from a company I’ll call 
“the supplier”, using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The first was for his home and 
the second for another property he owned but did not reside at. He paid a deposit, and the 
loan covered the remaining cost of the two systems.  
 
In September 2021, Mr S made a claim to Creation through a claims management company 
(“CMC”). This said that Mr S was told by the supplier that the income and savings from the 
systems would fund the cost of the loan so he would be no worse off each month. Mr S says 
that didn’t happen.  
 
The letter of claim also said that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between Mr S and Creation, including because: 
 
1. No suitable creditworthiness assessment was carried out before Creation agreed to 
the loan.  
 
2. No pre-contract credit information was provided to Mr S.  
 
3. There is no evidence that Mr S was given notice of his cancellation rights.  
 
4. The sale took place in a high-pressure selling environment. 
 
5. Full details of the credit agreement were not explained to Mr S, and he did not 
understand the total costs of the loan.  
 
6. Creation received commission which Mr S was not told about.  
 
Creation responded to the claim in October 2021. Creation treated the claim as a complaint 
and said that Mr S had brought his complaint too late. Creation dismissed the complaint 
without responding to the claim, which it said was allowed by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
Rules. These rules set out how financial businesses should handle complaints.   
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He said that: 
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, Creation’s 
refusal of this part of the claim was fair.  
 
 
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
 
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
 
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr S keep the systems and Creation take into account 
what Mr S had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the systems 
were effectively self-funding.  
 
Neither Creation nor Mr S provided any response by the deadline given. So, I’ve been asked 
to make a decision.  
 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was not planning to uphold the complaint.  
 
Mr S responded to say, “I'm sorry to say but there is nothing we can think of to add to the 
complaint. Only bitter disappointment about the failure of the system and wish we had never 
had it installed. All it has turned out to be is debt! And broken with no one to call to fix it so 
we could get even a little return on it.” 
 
Creation did not respond by the deadline I gave.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr S’s s.75 claim on 
3 September 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr S brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on in February 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
 
 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 17 July 2015. Mr S brought his s.75 claim to Creation on 
3 September 2021. That is more than six years after he entered into the credit agreement 
with Creation. Given this, I think Creation would have no liability for the s.75 claim. So, I do 
not uphold this part of the complaint.  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the supplier can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming the supplier to be the agent of 
Creation in any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by the supplier for which Creation were responsible under 
s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr S.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What Mr S was told at the time of sale 
 
The letter of claim says that Mr S was told that the income and savings from the system 
would fund the cost of the loan so he would be no worse off each month. When our 
investigator asked Mr S about his recollection of the sale, he let us know that he’d been told 
that, “it would be a good deal and a profitable one for the future of our income, implying a 
good amount of cash back from our electricity suppliers.”  
 
Mr S has not provided any sales documents which could shed further light on what 
information he was given at the time of sale.  
 
I’ve looked at the supplier’s website from the time of sale, which is available on the Internet 
Archive (I provided a link to this in my provisional decision). This had the following example 
of the benefits that might be provided by a domestic solar panel system: 
 
 
 
 
 
The figures in this example do not seem unreasonable. They are based on the FIT unit rates 
and the cost of electricity at that time, as well as the industry standard self-consumption rate 
of 50%. Nowhere on the archived website does it suggest the benefits of a solar panel 
system could cover the monthly cost if a loan is used, or that the system would in effect be 
free or self-funding. I think this is relevant to Mr S’s sale because it suggests that the 
supplier was making a reasonable assessment of the benefits of the systems it was selling 
at that time.  
 
Mr S has provided a welcome letter and attachments that were sent by the supplier in 
relation to each installation. Both gave figures for “predicted system performance” and 
warned that this was impossible to predict with certainty.  
 
The welcome letter for the first system is dated 7 July 2015. This stated the annual benefits 
of the first system would be as follows: 
 
• 
Contract value  
 
£7,500.00 
• 
Output  
 
 
2,203 kWh per year 
• 
FIT generation rate 12.92p  £284.65 
• 
FIT export rate 4.85p   
£53.43 
• 
Import rate (for savings) 18p  £209.30 
• 
Total income/savings   
£547.39 
• 
Annual ROI 
 
  
7.30% 
 
 
 
ROI means return on investment – in this case the annual return as a percentage of the 
contract value.  
 
So, I’m satisfied that before Mr S signed the credit agreement he was aware that the first 
system would provide a benefit of £547.39 per year, or 7.3% of the purchase price.  
 
The credit agreement was signed before the second welcome letter. It showed the following 
information about the loan: 
 
• 
Purchase price  
£13,600 
• 
Deposit paid   
£1,600 
• 
Credit   
 
£12,000 
• 
Charge for credit  
£6,615.35 
• 
Total payable   
£20,215.35 
• 
120 repayments of  
£155.12 per month 
 
So, when signing the credit agreement, it would have been clear to Mr S that the benefits of 
the first system would not cover the monthly or annual loan repayments.  
 
The welcome letter for the second system is dated 3 August 2015. This was after Mr S 
signed the credit agreement. It provided the following information about the annual benefits 
of the second system: 
 
• 
Contract value  
 
£7,000.00 
• 
Output  
 
 
1,468 kWh 
• 
FIT generation rate 12.92p  £189.77 
• 
FIT export rate 4.85p   
£35.62 
• 
Import rate (for savings) 18p £235.01 
• 
Total income/savings   
£460.40 
• 
Annual ROI 
 
  
6.60% 
 
So, the combined benefits of the two systems shown in the welcome letters was £1,007.79 
per year. This compares to the loan repayments of £155.12 per month which equates to 
£1,861.44 per year. From the welcome letters it is clear that the benefits of the system would 
not cover the loan repayments.  
 
I’m mindful that Mr S did not live at the second property, so would not benefit from any 
electricity savings from the system. He would only benefit from the FIT income from that 
system. I think he’d have been aware of this at the time.  
 
While the welcome letter for the second system is dated after the credit agreement was 
signed, it is clear that when signing the credit agreement Mr S was agreeing to purchase two 
systems. I say this because the purchase price shown on the credit agreement included the 
cost of both the systems. It stands to reason that prior to signing the credit agreement there 
would at least have been a discussion about both systems. And it is likely that a contract 
would’ve been signed, although this has not been provided to us.  
 
The welcome letters and the information on the supplier’s website make me think that it is 
likely the benefits discussed would’ve been realistic and in line with what is shown in the 
welcome letters. If that was not the case, I would have expected Mr S to do something about 
this when receiving the welcome letters, or within a reasonable time after installation – when 
he would’ve realised the loan repayments were much more than the benefits. But in fact, 
Mr S didn’t raise any concerns about the benefits he was receiving until over six years after 
 
 
the sale took place – even though the supplier was still in business for around five years 
after installation.  
 
Overall, I am not persuaded that the supplier told Mr S the system would pay for itself so that 
he would be no worse off financially each month. It seems more likely that the supplier gave 
Mr S a reasonable indication of what the benefits would be, and that these were much less 
than the loan repayments.  
 
Because I do not think that the supplier misled Mr S about the benefits of the system, I do 
not think that the way the system was represented to him meant that his relationship with 
Creation was unfair.  
 
Other points from the letter of claim 
 
The letter of claim makes some other points as to why the relationship between Mr S and 
Creation may be unfair. So, I have thought about these as well. I summarise my findings 
below. Overall, I do not think it is likely that any of these points would render Mr S’s 
relationship with Creation unfair.  
 
1. No suitable creditworthiness assessment was carried out before Creation agreed to 
the loan.  
 
I have not seen details of the creditworthiness assessment carried out. However, there has 
been no suggestion that the lending was irresponsible or that it was unaffordable for Mr S.  
 
I said in my provisional decision that if Mr S thought the lending was irresponsible or 
unaffordable then he should provide information and evidence about this in response to this 
provisional decision. He did not provide any comments, information, or evidence in relation 
to this. So, it seems unlikely that a suitable creditworthiness assessment would’ve led to 
Creation declining the loan application.  
 
2. No pre-contract credit information was provided to Mr S.  
 
The CMC has provided a copy of the pre-contract credit information. It’s unclear if this is a 
copy that Mr S held (in which case he was given this) or if this was received from Creation 
prior to the claim being made.  
 
That it exists suggests it is likely that Mr S was given a copy of it. However, even if Mr S was 
not provided with this, he signed the credit agreement which has all the same information on 
it. It is not clear to me that having this information sooner would’ve led to Mr S taking 
different action, such as not taking the loan or not purchasing the systems.  
 
3. There is no evidence that Mr S was given notice of his cancellation rights.  
 
Mr S has not provided a copy of the sales contract or terms and conditions, which would 
normally include the cancellation rights. In any case, there is no suggestion that Mr S wanted 
to cancel the contract within the 14-day cooling off period, or that he would’ve done so if he’d 
been given notice of the cancellation rights. So, I don’t think this would’ve made any 
difference to what happened.  
 
4. The sale took place in a high-pressure selling environment. 
 
The letter of claim has not set out what pressure was applied. And Mr S did not mention any 
concerns about being pressured into signing the contract when he told us about his 
 
 
recollection of the sale. So, I think there is insufficient evidence that Mr S was pressured into 
the agreement.  
 
5. Full details of the credit agreement were not explained to Mr S, and he did not 
understand the total costs of the loan.  
 
Mr S signed the credit agreement, which clearly set out what he was agreeing to pay and 
over what period. If he had any concerns about this he could’ve raised it before signing the 
agreement.   
 
6. Creation received commission which Mr S was not told about.  
 
It would be unusual for a lender to receive commission in a situation such as this. 
 
Mr S’s response to the provisional decision 
 
I acknowledge Mr S’s disappointment. His comments suggest that one or both of the 
systems are broken or not working in some way. If that is the case – which has not been 
mentioned previously as part of this complaint – Mr S can ask Creation if it can help (for 
example it may agree to inspect the system if it is still under warranty, to see if Creation has 
any liability for repairs). But that is a separate matter to this complaint about the fairness of 
his relationship with Creation. Otherwise, he can arrange for the system to be inspected and 
repaired at his own cost. 
 
Summary 
 
Overall, I am not persuaded that a court would conclude that Mr S’s relationship with 
Creation was unfair. And I’ve found no compelling reason as to why this complaint should be 
upheld.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
