 
 
DRN-5164134 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd reported missed payments to her 
credit file and incorrectly defaulted her account when she had a payment arrangement in 
place. 
 
What happened 
In April 2020, Miss J took out a running account credit agreement with Creation to finance 
the purchase of goods through a retailer. The purchase was on a buy now pay later offer, 
and monthly repayments of £236.17 were due to commence in February 2021 – the 
agreement says that Miss J was required to make 12 monthly repayments, with the expected 
end date being January 2022. 
 
Miss J has had difficulties keeping up with the contractual repayments under the agreement 
and has set up various repayment plans with Creation. She says that in June 2023, she set 
up a payment plan with Creation and as part of the plan, she agreed to pay £144.34 per 
month. Miss J says that Creation didn’t set the plan up correctly on its systems. The result of 
this is that Creation incorrectly reported that she had missed six payments and defaulted her 
account – even though she kept to the terms of the agreed plan. Miss J says she missed a 
payment in November 2023, but the account shouldn’t have defaulted after one missed 
payment. 
 
Miss J told us that this situation has caused her a lot of distress. She has also been unable 
to get a house or a new car as a result of the information showing on her credit file. 
 
Creation responded to Miss J’s complaint, but it didn’t uphold it. It explained that it had 
previously set up multiple six month holds to her account. And then in June 2023, it set up a 
12 month repayment plan for her. Because the account was in arrears and the November 
2023 payment was missed, the account defaulted. Creation said it had applied the default 
fairly. 
 
An Investigator considered what both parties had said, however, they didn’t think Miss J’s 
complaint should be upheld. The Investigator found that Miss J’s account was in arrears by 
many months at the point in which it defaulted. And in summary, they didn’t think it was 
unfair of Creation to have defaulted the account. 
 
Miss J didn’t agree with the investigator. I have summarised her main points below: 
 
• 
She carried out the actions in the default notice by setting up a repayment plan in 
November 2023, so it wasn’t fair to register a default. 
• 
It wasn’t fair to default the account after only missing one payment in November 
2023. 
• 
She was told by someone at Creation that the missed payments it recorded, and the 
default would be removed. She said she was told it would do this because it had 
incorrectly recorded the payment arrangement, which resulted in missed payments 
being recorded and the account defaulting. 
 
 
• 
Creation should have shown her forbearance and fair treatment when it applied the 
default. Miss J referred to CONC 7.3 to support her view on this. 
• 
Miss J reiterated the severe and disproportionate impact the default has had on her 
credit file. 
 
Because an agreement couldn’t be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide on 
the matter. 
 
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case, that’s because it was my intention to 
come to a different outcome to the Investigator. Because of this, I wanted to give both 
parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to take into account before 
I came to my final decision on the matter. 
 
I have copied my provisional findings below, which also form part of this final decision. 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Having considered all of the information available to me, it is my intention to uphold Miss J’s 
complaint. However, I understand that what I intend to require Creation to do to put things 
right will disappoint Miss J. 
 
I think it’s important to firstly explain I’ve read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my provisional decision. I say this as I’m aware I’ve 
summarised Miss J’s complaint, and her responses to the Investigator’s view in considerably 
less detail than she has. If I’ve not reflected something that’s been said it’s not because I 
didn’t see it, it’s because I didn’t deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. This isn’t 
intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding 
what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I don’t think it’s necessary to get an 
answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless I think it’s relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. 
 
In my view, Miss J’s complaint falls into three separate points, and I intend to cover these off 
separately. 
 
Default 
 
I don’t think it’s in dispute here that Miss J’s account was many months in arrears at the 
point in which it defaulted. 
 
Based on what I’ve seen, Miss J set up a repayment plan in June 2023. She started making 
repayments of £144.34 in August 2023 and missed a payment in November 2023 at which 
point Creation sent Miss J a default notice. 
 
The ICO has provided guidance to say that generally, an account should default when it is 
between three to six months in arrears. Miss J’s account was many months, more than six, 
in arrears at the point in which it defaulted. So, in my view, the default should have been 
applied much earlier than it was. However, I will go onto this in more detail later. 
 
Miss J has provided this service with information to show that an account shouldn’t default 
when only one payment has been missed. And she feels this applies to her situation 
because the only payment she missed was in November 2023. As I’ve explained, Miss J’s 
account was in arrears by many months at the point it defaulted, with her not having kept up 
with her contractual repayment since September 2021. So, while Miss J did miss one 
 
 
payment during the repayment plan, her account was in arrears by many months at this 
point. 
 
The ICO has produced other guidance (see ICO publication ‘Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies’ (Version 2a Published 
July 2016 (updated to refer to GDPR and DPA 2018) which specifically relates to how 
accounts in payment arrangements should be reported. This states “If your lender agrees to 
give you a temporary arrangement, but you fail to make the agreed payment against the new 
terms, they may still file a default (see Principle 4 below) as soon as a payment is missed, as 
long you were at least 3 months in arrears on the original agreement.” 
 
I am aware that Miss J contacted Creation within the 28 days provided in the default letter to 
set up a new arrangement. And that despite doing this, a default was still applied. 
 
But looking at what happened here, it doesn’t look like an arrangement was put in place to 
clear the arrears. The default notice set out that Miss J needed to clear the arrears or come 
to an arrangement to clear the arrears. But Miss J couldn’t afford to do this and so it was 
agreed that she didn’t have to pay for a further six months – so an arrangement wasn’t put in 
place to pay off the arrears and put the account in a better position. 
 
Given what I’ve said here and taking into account what the ICO guidance says about an 
account defaulting as soon as a payment in an arrangement is missed, I can understand 
why Creation defaulted the account when it did. 
 
That being said and taking into account the ICO guidance I’ve mentioned above, I’m 
currently persuaded that Creation should backdate the date of the default. I think it ought to 
have been clear to Creation much earlier that Miss J was struggling to keep up with 
repayments at the contractual amount, and she had been in arrears for a very long time by 
the time Creation defaulted the account. 
 
Miss J initially set up a three-month payment freeze in March 2021; this is due to the effect 
Covid-19 was having on her finances. Once this ended, Creation carried out an income and 
expenditure with Miss J and found that she was in a deficit, so she wasn’t required to make a 
payment for six months – interest appears to have been frozen throughout this time. Then in 
August 2022, Miss J set up a temporary arrangement to pay around £100 for three months. 
 
But she wasn’t able to make the payment in October 2022 and so the payment arrangement 
was broken. It is my view that Creation should backdate the default to October 2022. At this 
point, Miss J had broken the terms of the arrangement and her account was in arrears of 
more than six months. I accept that Creation did try to help Miss J by continuing to set up 
plans, but it seemed clear by October 2022 that Miss J couldn’t pay the contractual amount 
due, let alone clear the arrears that had built up. 
 
I note that Miss J has referred to the severe impact the default has had on her credit file, and 
that she feels this is disproportionate to what’s happened. While I accept that the default will 
have a negative impact on her credit file, making it more difficult and/or more expensive to 
get credit; a credit file should be an accurate reflection of how an account has been 
managed. And in this case, I think the default is an accurate reflection of how the account 
has been managed and I don’t find it to be disproportionate. 
 
Forbearance 
 
Miss J says that Creation haven’t shown her forbearance when it applied the default. 
 
 
 
Creation is required to show a customer in financial difficulties forbearance, and the CONC 
7.3 provides examples of forbearance which includes suspending, reducing, waiving or 
cancelling any further interest or charges. But this doesn’t mean it should prevent a 
customer from getting a default. 
 
I can see that Creation did provide Miss J with forbearance on a number of occasions when 
it agreed to waive interest and suspend repayments for the periods of time Miss J couldn’t 
afford to pay. So I think it did make attempts to support her when she was struggling 
financially. 
 
That being said, my current view is that Miss J’s account should have defaulted in October 
2022, because I think Creation ought to have been aware by this point that Miss J couldn’t 
make the contractual repayments or pay back the arrears. So I’m currently minded to say 
that Creation should refund Miss J any interest is has charged her since October 2022, and 
it should stop any further interest charges from being applied to her account. 
 
Misinformation provided by Creation 
 
Miss J says that Creation admitted that it made a mistake when recording the payment 
arrangement. This meant that payments were recorded as being missed, and a default 
reported. She says that someone at Creation told her that it would remove the missed 
payments and default from her credit file, but only the missed payments have been removed, 
and the default remains. 
 
The call Miss J refers to is no longer available, so I can’t be sure about what Miss J was told 
on the call. But even if I accept that Creation told her it would remove the default from her 
credit file, it doesn’t necessarily follow that I would order Creation to follow through with this.  
 
Creation have said that its reporting of the missed payments was incorrect, because of how 
it had recorded the payment plan. It says it shouldn’t have recorded these as missed. I’m 
minded to agree with this, given that the ICO guidance states that an account in an 
arrangement to pay should be recorded as such. I note that Creation has removed this 
reporting now, and so there isn’t anything left for it to do here. 
 
But Creation hasn’t agreed that it did anything wrong in recording the default. And given that 
I have found that a default should be recorded (albeit at an earlier point in time), I won’t be 
asking Creation to remove this. 
 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Miss J, especially if she was in fact told the default 
would be removed. But not reporting a default wouldn’t be an accurate reflection of how the 
account was managed. And so, it wouldn’t be reasonable of me to ask it to do this. 
 
Summary 
 
Overall, I’m satisfied that Miss J’s account should have defaulted, however it is my current 
view that the default date should be backdated to October 2022, and any interest charged 
after this date should be refunded and no further interest charges should be applied to the 
account.” 
 
Neither party responded to the provisional decision by the deadline. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
 
 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Given that neither party responded to my provisional decision with any other points they 
want me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold Miss J’s complaint. 
 
Putting things right 
To put things right for Miss J, I order Creation to: 
 
• 
Update Miss J’s credit file to reflect a default date of October 2022. 
 
• 
Re-work Miss J’s account so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it from 
October 2022 onwards are removed. 
 
• 
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made Creation 
should contact Miss J to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.  
 
OR 
 
• 
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss J, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. † 
 
† HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss J’s complaint. I order Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to put things right for Miss J by doing what I’ve said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2024. 
  
 
Sophie Wilkinson 
Ombudsman 
 
