DRN-2707586
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd refused the claim she brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She wants to reject goods she believes 
aren’t of satisfactory quality. And to receive a refund.
What happened
Mrs O tells us that in August 2018 she ordered a three-piece suite from a retailer I’ll call “H”. 
This was delivered in November 2018. Mrs O states that around January 2019 she noticed 
that a large crease had appeared on the sofa and complained to H and subsequently to 
Creation. She states that there have been three inspections carried out on the furniture. And 
that the latest of these - which she arranged to have carried out by an independent expert - 
concluded there was a manufacturing fault with all three items.
Creation told us that it had considered three independent reports. Two of which had 
concluded there were no faults. It considered that there was insufficient information to accept 
Mrs O’s Section 75 claim.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation was entitled to take the view that two out of three of the inspections had concluded 
there were no faults with the furniture. And that there was insufficient information to show 
there’d been a breach of contract by H.
Mrs O wasn’t happy with this outcome. And asked for an ombudsman to make the final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m sorry that Mrs O isn’t satisfied with the quality of the furniture with which she was 
supplied. And I accept that she’d be disappointed if she felt such an expensive item didn’t 
meet her expectations.
I think it’s important to set out my role here.  I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that 
Mrs O might have under Section 75. Rather, I’m required to decide what, if anything, 
Creation should do to resolve this complaint. When determining what’s fair and reasonable, 
I’m required to take into account (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law 
includes Section 75. And the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Mrs O’s complaint is that the three-piece suite she purchased isn’t of satisfactory quality. 
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods don’t conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didn’t do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless it’s shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Mrs O’s initial complaint arose within six months of the supply of the goods. And it’s not in 
dispute that there have now been three inspections by independent experts. 
The first report was carried out by a business I’ll refer to as “HS” in February 2019.  This was 
commissioned by the retailer, H.  This report concluded that there were no manufacturing 
faults with the furniture. 
Mrs O then obtained a report from a business I’ll call “E”. An inspection in April 2019 also 
concluded that there were no faults.
Finally, Mrs O obtained a further report in June 2019 from a business I’ll call “FR”. This 
report concluded there were manufacturing faults with the sofa and both chairs.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In plain terms, there’s a difference of opinion between experts. But I don’t think it’s a 
question of accepting the majority opinion. The various businesses that have prepared these 
reports are recognised within the industry as experts. And I don’t think I’m in a position to 
say that one view should be relied upon to the exclusion of the others.
Nor do I think that Creation should be expected to make such a distinction. As the provider 
of credit, its expertise is not in the finer points of the items it finances. It’s entitled to rely on 
experts who have such knowledge. And where those experts disagree – and in the absence 
of other information to show that the view of a particular expert should be preferred – it’s fair 
and reasonable for it to decide the information is inconclusive. And that there’s insufficient 
information to establish it has any liability under Section 75. Accordingly, I can’t reasonably 
say that Creation has done anything wrong. Accordingly, I’m not upholding this complaint.
I understand that Mrs O will be disappointed with this outcome. But I want to emphasise that 
my decision is based only upon my determining Creation has dealt with the complaint fairly. 
I’m not deciding if the items supplied were or were not of satisfactory quality. Or which expert 
is correct. 
Nor does my decision prevent Mrs O taking such action as may be available to her against 
H. The reason I’ve considered her complaint solely against Creation, is that I’m only able to 
look at complaints against businesses in relation to certain regulated financial activities. And 
furniture retailing is not such an activity. So I can’t make any decision in respect of H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman
