DRN-2349673
The complaint
Mrs E complains that a carpet, that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mrs E entered in to a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, 
that she electronically signed in October 2018, to pay for some carpet which cost 
£3,112.74;

she complained about some issues with the carpet in July 2019 and it was inspected 
by the supplier and manufacturer – they said that the carpet was flattening and 
matting in all main tread areas but that wasn’t a manufacturing defect;

Mrs E arranged an independent inspection of the carpet in November 2019, for which 
she paid £195, and she also made a complaint using a retail alternative dispute 
resolution process – but that complaint, and the complaint that she’d already made to 
Creation Consumer Finance, weren’t upheld so she complained to this service;

our investigator said that Mrs E should be allowed to reject the carpet because she’d 
contacted the supplier but it didn’t agree that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality – so she 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: arrange for the carpet to be 
removed and collected at no cost to Mrs E; cancel the loan agreement with nothing 
further to pay; return the instalments that Mrs E had paid towards the credit 
agreement since she complained to it in July 2019; and reimburse the cost of the 
independent inspection;

Mrs E says that she shouldn’t have to pay anything for the carpet, her doors have 
been altered to accommodate the new carpet and Creation Consumer Finance’s 
customer service has been awful; 

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

to be able to uphold Mrs E’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the carpet and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to her claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mrs E’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

the independent inspection agreed with the other reports that the pile flattening 
wasn’t a manufacturing defect but it says: “This carpet is releasing tufts freely as a 
result of a weak tuft anchorage. The material’s constructional strength has been 
compromised by an inadequate latex encapsulation during manufacture. … I believe 
that this carpet installation has a latent material defect …”; and

I consider it to be more likely than not that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs E and that’s a breach of contract for which Creation 
Consumer Finance would be liable under section 75 – so I find that it’s response to 
Mrs E’s complaint hasn’t been fair and reasonable and that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for it to allow her to reject the carpet.
Putting things right
Mrs E doesn’t want to keep the carpet so I find that it would fair and reasonable for Creation 
Consumer Finance to arrange for the carpet to removed and taken away, at no cost to Mrs 
E, and that it should end the fixed sum loan agreement, also at no cost to her.
Mrs E has had the carpet for more than two years, since October 2018, and she complained 
about the issues with it in July 2019 – I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs E all of 
the repayments that she’s made under the agreement since she complained about the 
carpet in July 2019. I consider that it’s fair and reasonable for it to keep the repayments that 
she made before that date as payment for the use that she’s had from the carpet.
I sympathise with Mrs E for the issues that she’s had with the carpet and the customer 
service issues with Creation Consumer Finance – but section 75 doesn’t apply to 
compensation for customer service issues so, in these circumstances, I’m unable to require 
Creation Consumer Finance to compensate Mrs E for any customer service issues. But I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs E the 
£195 that she paid for the independent inspection. I don’t consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay her any compensation for the future cost that she may 
incur if she has to have her doors altered to fit a replacement carpet.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs E’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Arrange for the carpet to be removed and taken away at no cost to Mrs E.
2.
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mrs E.
3.
Refund to Mrs E the monthly repayments that she’s made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement since she complained about the carpet in July 2019.
4.
Pay £195 to Mrs E to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
