DRN-3202542
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited unfairly charged him interest 
under a credit agreement. 
What happened
Mr B bought a laptop in September 2019 for around £1,150 from a retailer I’ll call ‘R’ using a 
running account credit agreement from Creation. From what I can see there was a £200 
deposit, so the borrowing was around £950. The credit agreement gave Mr B a buy now pay 
later (BNPL) option, meaning he had six months to pay off the credit before any interest 
would be applied. The plan summary said the BNPL period would end on 23 March 2020. 
And it goes on to say ‘if we receive your settlement payment after 23/03/2020 we will charge 
interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified above’. 
Mr B says he was abroad at the time the BNPL period came to an end. He said he’d been 
unable to access R’s website and emailed them but didn’t receive a response. He said that, 
by this point, Covid-19 had started causing issues and his flight home had been cancelled. 
As he hadn’t received a response to his emails, Mr B said he tried to call R but was unable 
to get through. 
As Mr B didn’t take his paperwork abroad with him, he didn’t initially know Creation was the 
creditor. But once he remembered he said he tried to access its website but there was an 
error message. After trying unsuccessfully to get through to Creation on the phone over the 
next few days he managed to speak to it. He paid off around £900. But he was called back 
by the advisor who said they’d misquoted the price, and that he owed around another £200 – 
which included interest. Mr B was unhappy so raised a complaint. 
Creation looked into things and acknowledged there was a technical issue on its website on 
15 April 2020 which was rectified around 5pm (although Mr B said he couldn’t access it other 
times). But it said it couldn’t be held responsible for Mr B not settling the agreement. It said it 
had emailed Mr B statements prior to the BNPL period ending. However, it did acknowledge 
its advisor initially gave Mr B the wrong information, so it applied a £75 credit to reduce the 
balance on the account. 
Unhappy with this Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator ultimately 
thought Creation had done enough to put things right. She thought Creation couldn’t be held 
responsible for Mr B not being able to access its website while he was abroad. She noted 
Mr B had contacted Creation after the BNPL period had already ended. So she didn’t think it 
acted unfairly by applying the interest. And she thought Creation’s offer of £75 was fair for 
the misinformation from its agent. 
Mr B didn’t agree. He reiterated he’d been unable to get through to R. He doesn’t see what 
more he could have done to pay given both R and Creation’s websites were ‘down’. He’s 
also unhappy he wasn’t told when he took out the agreement that he might’ve had issues 
paying it while he was abroad. He says he could have made other arrangements had he 
known. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say I’m sorry to hear that Mr B was impacted by Covid-19. I appreciate the time and 
effort it has taken him to bring his complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure Mr B and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on 
something, it’s not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr B bought the laptop using a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
 
I first want to highlight that the complaint I’m considering is against Creation. Creation is a 
separate business from R. So what this means is that I can consider how Creation has 
treated Mr B under this complaint. But this doesn’t necessarily mean I can hold it liable for 
everything R did or didn’t do after the agreement was brokered. 
As a starting point, it’s not in dispute that payment was not made to the agreement prior to 
the end of the BNPL period – 23 March 2020. The agreement sets out that interest can be 
charged if the balance is not paid by this date. This didn’t happen, so Creation charged 
interest as per the agreement that Mr B entered into. So I don’t find it unfair Creation has 
charged interest on this basis. 
I’ve next considered whether there are any other reasons why Creation should not be fairly 
able to charge interest. If Mr B had tried to pay the balance but Creation had done 
something wrong that meant he was unable to then that would seem unfair. But I’ve not seen 
evidence Mr B tried to contact Creation before the BNPL period had ended. The evidence 
I’ve seen shows Mr B spoke to Creation on 15 April 2020 – after the interest had already 
been applied. So I think by the time Mr B spoke to Creation it was already too late. 
I take Mr B’s point that he was having difficulties contacting R. Of course, it’s not unusual for 
a customer to contact the retailer when seeking to pay for the goods. It’s not clear whether 
Mr B would have been able to pay the agreement through R’s website, or over the phone 
with it. Creation hasn’t responded to our requests on that point. But he may have been able 
to. So to be fair to Mr B we asked him if he had any evidence of contacting R before the 
deadline of 23 March 2020. He told us he was unable to get call logs or evidence of going on 
the website. The contact he has been able to provide is of an email to R on 11 April 2020 
saying he’d been trying for a few days to clear his account but had been unable to access 
the website or phone. This is nearly three weeks after the BNPL period ended. So even if I 
was able to hold Creation responsible for something R may have done wrong, on balance, I 
still don’t have sufficient evidence Mr B contacted R before the deadline. So I don’t find this 
would give me the grounds to direct Creation to remove the interest. 
I’ve also thought about Mr B’s comments that he should have been told at the outset he 
might’ve had difficulty paying from abroad, particularly as he bought the laptop to take away 
with him. But I’m not persuaded Creation has acted unfairly here. While under certain 
circumstances it can be held responsible for R’s antecedent negotiations, I don’t think R 
would have been expected to cover every single eventuality when selling the laptop and 
brokering the agreement. Brokers are required to provide adequate explanations including 
the key features. And, in any event, Mr B was able to pay Creation by other means, such as 
over the phone, which is what he ended up doing. So I don’t find I have the basis to uphold 
the complaint based on what was or wasn’t advised at the point of sale.
 
I’ve finally thought about the impact of Covid-19. It was an unprecedented situation for 
consumers and businesses. And, of course, I can understand Mr B would’ve had a lot to 
process and think about given he was abroad at the time the pandemic started to escalate. I 
do appreciate that Mr B may have had other things to worry about. But I still don’t find that 
this would give me the grounds to say Creation has acted unfairly by applying interest, when 
there’s insufficient evidence Mr B contacted it, or indeed R, before the deadline.
 
Creation did acknowledge it gave Mr B wrong information when he spoke to it. And it offered 
a £75 reduction to the balance. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. But for the reasons 
given above, I’m not going to direct it to write off the interest. 
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Limited has offered to reduce Mr B’s balance by £75 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I don’t direct Creation to take any other action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
