DRN-1545709
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly placed a HPI marker on his 
fixed sum loan agreement and mis-sold the finance agreement to him.
What happened
Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement in June 17 to buy a car. Added to the loan was 
the negative equity owing on Mr B’s previous car. In December 2018 Mr B wanted to part 
exchange his car and was told that there was a HPI marker from Creation on the car which 
would need to be cleared. Mr B complained to Creation that it wasn’t made clear to him that 
his finance agreement had a HP element to it.
Creation rejected Mr B’s complaint and said that although he had a fixed sum agreement it 
had added the HPI marker to make Mr B aware he would still have to pay the finance even if 
he sold the car. It said that the terms of the agreement were clear. It removed the HPI 
marker at Mr B’s request which it said was done promptly.
Mr B wasn’t happy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and thought that Creation hadn’t acted fairly in placing the HPI marker on the car. 
He thought that it wasn’t right for such a marker to be on a car that was the subject of a fixed 
sum loan agreement and as this had caused Mr B considerable delay in being able to sell 
his car, he thought Creation should pay Mr B £150 compensation. He thought that the 
agreement itself hadn’t been mis-sold. 
Mr B agreed with the investigators view. Creation didn’t agree and said that Mr B had never 
raised the issue of the HPI marker in his complaint. In addition, it said that it was justified in 
placing the HPI marker on the car as an internal policy decision and this service couldn’t 
comment on those decisions. In any event the HPI marker was removed within 72 hours of 
the request from Mr B and a confirmation was sent to the dealership to enable him to 
proceed with his part exchange.
Our investigator looked at everything again and thought that it was fair for this service to look 
at the HPI marker aspect of Mr B’s complaint as this was dealt with in Creation’s final 
response letter. He didn’t change his view that Creation was wrong to put the marker on Mr 
B’s car. But he thought that given the evidence that the HPI marker was removed quickly the 
compensation Creation should pay to Mr B should be reduced to £50. 
Creation accepted the investigators second view, but Mr B wasn’t happy with the reduction 
in compensation. He said that the HPI marker took many calls and trips to his dealership to 
get resolved and it wasn’t removed within 72 hours as Creation said. Mr B asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that the type of agreement is now agreed between Mr B and Creation as a fixed 
sum agreement. Mr B agrees that this wasn’t mis-sold to him.
I agree with the investigator that Creation should not have put the HPI marker on Mr B’s car 
without making this clear to him. I don’t agree that this is simply a useful “reminder” for 
people to be prompted to remember to pay their finance if they sell the car. A HPI marker 
has specific consequences for buyers and sellers and I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Creation to explain that they were placing a marker against the vehicle and 
what Mr B needed to do about getting it removed.
   
Putting things right
It seems that Mr B was able to proceed with his part exchange and after some calls the 
marker was removed. I haven’t seen any evidence that this caused a delay, but I have no 
doubt it was inconvenient for Mr B. This service doesn’t punish businesses for mistakes and 
the awards we make are modest. In these circumstances I agree with the investigator that 
£50 is fair and reasonable to reflect the level of trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay 
Mr B £50. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
