DRN-2586685
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) won’t replace a phone he 
purchased (and which is faulty). He also complains that his claim for a new phone and then 
his complaint about not being provided with one wasn’t adequately investigated by Creation.
Mr C’s phone was financed, in part, by credit provided by Creation.
What happened
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldn’t be upheld. In summary he said that as the retailer had agreed to inspect the phone 
if Mr C was to return it, Creation didn’t need to anything further, at least at this stage.
Mr C didn’t agree with the investigator’s view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that I’ve come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons.
Mr C submits that because Creation has been unable to establish that the reported fault with 
the phone wasn’t present, or developing, when it was first supplied to him, he is entitled 
under various legislation to a replacement phone.
However, Mr C has misunderstood his rights under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the   
Consumer Rights Act 2015, the two pieces of legislation to which, as I understand it, he is 
referring to.
Mr C is correct in that under the above legislation it’s for Creation or its agents to establish 
the reported fault with the phone wasn’t present or developing when it was first supplied to 
him, rather than him having to prove it was. This is because Mr C first reported a fault with 
the phone within six months of being supplied with it. 
But Creation can only meet its obligations to Mr C if it, or its agents, can inspect the phone. 
And I’m afraid that as Mr C won’t allow Creation or its agents to do so, at least at the current 
time, I find that Creation need do nothing further in respect of Mr C’s claim or complaint.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that I’ve seen nothing in Creation’s handling 
of Mr C’s claim or complaint that would warrant me making any award in Mr C’s favour.
My final decision
My final decision is I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
