 
 
DRN-4962967 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Mr M has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from July 2024, which form part of 
this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that Mr M was induced into buying 
the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by misrepresentations, which resulted in 
there being an unfair relationship between him and Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. Mr M 
accepted my findings and Creation has not responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
“What happened 
 
In November 2013, Mr M bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) using a 10-year fixed 
sum loan from Creation. There is little paperwork from the time of the sale, and several 
business names attached to what there is, which I will discuss in the following section of this 
decision. However, it would appear that the seller used a sub-contractor to complete the 
installation itself. 
 
Mr M complained to Creation, he said that he was told by a salesperson that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and electricity savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments, however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also 
believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
himself and Creation.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr M had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr M referred his complaint to our service. 
 
An adjudicator considered Mr M’s complaint, she ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s answer 
seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been referred 
in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
 
 
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr M and Creation.  
She recommended that Mr M keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr M had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. She also recommended an award of £100 distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the poor and protracted way in which Creation had dealt with this matter. 
 
Mr M accepted the adjudicator’s view. Creation did not, highlighting again that the event 
complained of occurred in November 2013, and had therefore been brought too late for this 
service to consider it. Several months later it reiterated that objection, and went on to 
disagree with the adjudicator’s findings around how things should be put right for Mr M. So, 
the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction 
 
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr M’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
I’m also satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the key acts and omissions relating to 
this sale were undertaken by the credit intermediary set out on the finance agreement, who I’ll 
call ‘E’. I say this because the company that carried out the physical installation had no 
permissions to arrange finance and appears to be solely involved in construction activities, 
rather than any selling. Similarly, the (different) company which invoiced Mr M for the panels 
themselves, but not the installation costs, is described as a “consulting” business on 
Companies House records. So, having thought carefully about the parties involved, I’m 
persuaded it is more likely than not that E actually undertook the selling of the system to Mr M 
in the terms he has described. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr M’s s.75 claim on 
20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr M 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 16 December 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr M is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship 
with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the 
assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. A 
court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, 
including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard 
to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making 
the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in 
Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is ongoing, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr M’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr M unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr M 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr M’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be considered 
under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or not 
done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation 
by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and important aspects of a 
transaction. 
 
 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations 
and arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when considering 
whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr M has said that he was told by E’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make on his 
electricity charges. Mr M says that he was “cold called” at his front door by E, and I haven’t 
seen any evidence he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr M to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I have a copy of the loan agreement, which shows that both the total amount payable, and the 
monthly cost of the loan were clear to Mr M.  However, there is no mention on the agreement 
of the potential benefits of the panels. 
 
Unfortunately, neither party has any documentation created by E or indeed anyone else to 
show what, if any, figures it provided on the likely performance and financial benefits of the 
panels. Mr M has been able to provide me with his application to his energy provider for FIT 
payments from November 2013, which he had retained. But nothing else is available now. 
 
On looking at the application for FIT payments, I can see that Mr M sent an Energy 
Performance Certificate (EPC) to his energy provider as part of that. It is dated January 2013, 
and, whilst he isn’t sure, Mr M believes it was simply given to him when he bought his home 
at the beginning of that year. It does not appear to have been commissioned by Mr M himself 
or indeed as part of the solar panel system sale or installation. 
 
I have given the EPC particular scrutiny as it suggests that there are only very modest 
savings to be made from the installation of a solar panel system. So I asked Mr M why he 
hadn’t taken that into account when making his decision to buy the system. As already 
mentioned, he explained that he believes he had received the EPC as part of buying the 
house, and not in relation to his decision about the solar panel system. He said that he made 
no link between what E’s representative was saying and the EPC he had been handed 
months earlier. He says the salesperson did “…an example…” which he no longer has 
showing how the system would cover the cost of the finance. He also highlighted that this was 
not his, “…field of expertise…,” and that he therefore, “…foolishly took the word of the 
salesperson.” And, finally, that he found it plausible that the system would generate the 
necessary savings of £96 per month to cover the repayments. 
 
I find what Mr M has said to be believable. Given the credit agreement doesn’t contain 
information about the benefits, Mr M would have looked to E’s representative to help him 
understand what the panels would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. 
As mentioned, I’ve seen no evidence of any motivation other than a financial one on Mr M’s 
part to agree to the panel installation. I’m of the opinion that money would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electricity bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation with a salesperson. On balance, I think it 
is more likely than not that Mr M would not have agreed to the installation of the panels if E 
had made it clear that it would leave him out of pocket. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr M’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr M left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
 
 
repayment of around £96, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr M’s account of what he was told by E credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances about saving 
money he’s said he received from E.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,160 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr M’s 
system was not performing as expected, but his system has clearly not produced this. So, 
these statements were not true. I think the E’s representative must reasonably have been 
aware that Mr M’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are 
elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I 
think E’s representative would have known that Mr M’s system would not produce enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr M. 
 
Considering Mr M’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely E gave Mr M 
a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr M was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis 
upon which Mr M went into the transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously 
misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr M’s point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr M in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that, because of this, the relationship between Mr M 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had to 
pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost of 
the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr M’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr M and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
M a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
E’s assurances. That is, that Mr M’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, I plan to direct Creation to recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr M received from the system over 
the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Mr M received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
 
 
savings. Mr M will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, cited by Creation in its rejection of the adjudicator’s 
view. But this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. 
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, and even if I 
am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should 
be based on Mr M’s expectation of what he would receive. I consider Mr M has lost out, and 
has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to the extent that his loan 
repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels.  
 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr M. Creation 
should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or direction 
(or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court would award 
or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is 
intended to be fair, quick, and informal.  
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr M’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr M some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr M £100.” 
 
As mentioned above, Mr M has accepted my findings and Creation has not replied at all to 
my provisional decision. Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out 
therein. And so it follows that I uphold this complaint. 
 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Mr M, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must now: 
  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr M has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr M’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr M should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr M  
*If Mr M is not able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or FIT 
benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
I also think the way Creation handled Mr M’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate. 
 
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
