DRN-2559203
The complaint
Mr B bought carpets for his five bedrooms, landings and stairs from a retailer, S, which was 
also to arrange fitting. He paid for the carpets and fitting through a loan which S arranged 
with Creation Finance Ltd. He says that the work was not completed and that, as the finance 
provider, Creation, is equally liable with S.
What happened
Background to the complaint
In or about June 2019 Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for just over 
£2,700. The loan had been arranged by S to cover the purchase of carpets and underlay, 
together with fitting.
There were however a number of problems with the fitting of the carpets. It’s not necessary
for me to set out all the details here, but by the end of the year carpets had still not been
fitted in one of Mr B’s bedrooms, two landings and two flights of stairs.
Mr B complained to S and (as the finance provider) to Creation. S offered to reduce the price
of the work by 10%, or £273, and to arrange for the completion of the work. Mr B was not
happy with that proposal and referred the matter to the retail ombudsman, who considered
the complaint about S. Mr B also arranged for a carpet to be fitted in the remaining bedroom,
at a cost of some £550.
The retail ombudsman issued a decision in February 2020. He considered that the offer of a
10% reduction was fair in the circumstances. The ombudsman noted however that there
were a number of areas in which Mr B had not submitted any supporting evidence. It seems
too that he made his decision on the understanding that the work had by then been
completed; subsequent correspondence suggests that was not the case, however.
In that further correspondence between Mr B and S, S offered Mr B two options. He could
have a reduction in price for the parts of the work that had not been completed. S calculated
that this would amount to £1,768.49, based on the cost of unfitted carpet, underlay, grippers
and bars. Alternatively, he could accept the retail ombudsman’s recommendation of a 10%
reduction in the price and have the work completed.
Mr B didn’t accept either offer. He said that he should, in addition, be compensated for the
extra £550 he had spent on having the fifth bedroom carpeted, along with compensation for
the time he had taken off work.
Referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service
At around the same time, Mr B referred the matter to this service, asking us to consider his
complaint about Creation. One of our investigators did that and recommended that Creation:

work with S to arrange cancellation of the carpets which had not been fitted;

apply the 10% discount to the value of the contract;

provide a breakdown of the amount left to pay under the loan;

refund the cost of the replacement carpet which Mr B bought from a different supplier;

pay Mr B £150 as compensation for its own handling of the complaint.
Mr B clarified that carpet to cover the fifth bedroom and the landing and stairs had not been
delivered. There was no unused carpet at his property. Creation didn’t accept the
investigator’s view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It said that, as the retail
ombudsman had already considered Mr B’s complaint about S, it wasn’t appropriate for this
service to look again at what were the same issues.
My provisional decision
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I thought 
that any award I might make was likely to be very similar to the offer that S had already 
made to resolve things. It wasn’t therefore appropriate to make that award against Creation. 
I set out my reasons below, as they appeared in my provisional decision. 
I’ll comment firstly on Creation’s position as finance provider. Because it arranged the loan
under arrangements it had with S, Creation is, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974, equally liable to Mr B for any claim he might have against S for breach of contract or
misrepresentation.
Creation says that this service should not consider Mr B’s complaint, because the retail
ombudsman has already considered his complaint about S. I can understand Creation’s
argument here, especially as the effect of section 75 is that Mr B has a “like claim” against
Creation to any claim he has against S. It is however clear that the retail ombudsman’s
decision was made on the (incorrect) understanding that all the carpets had been supplied
and fitted. It was also influenced by a lack of evidence in some areas, some of which has
now been provided. In the circumstances, I don’t believe it would be appropriate for me to
exercise my discretion not to consider Mr B’s complaint. I will however comment further on
the involvement of the retail ombudsman on [page 3] of this decision.
S does not appear to dispute that it was in breach of its contract with Mr B. It agreed to
supply and fit carpets for five bedrooms, two landings and two sets of stairs. It has only
supplied and fitted carpets for four bedrooms but has, through the loan agreement, been
paid the full amount. The main issue I need to consider, therefore, is what the appropriate
remedy is and whether I should require Creation to provide it.
The usual remedy for a breach of contract is to put the parties in the position they would
have been in if the contract had been performed. If that had happened, Mr B would have had
all his carpets fitted for the price he paid. He would also have had the work completed within
a reasonable time and with proper care.
Mr B indicated in the past that he still wanted the work completed with the same carpets – so
they matched those that were fitted. That is something that S offered, with a 10% price
reduction. It isn’t however something that Creation, as a finance provider, can arrange. If this
solution is acceptable to Mr B, therefore, I think it is best for him to take it up again with S. I
do note however that Mr B has since fitted a different carpet in the fifth bedroom, so this
remedy is no longer available in the way it was when offered.
As an alternative, S also offered to refund the amount of the overall price attributable to the
missing carpets. It’s strongly arguable that this would place Mr B in the position he would
have been in if the contract had been performed, since it would provide funds with which he
could have the remaining carpets supplied and fitted. A similar outcome would be achieved
by a reduction in the balance owing under the loan agreement.
In my view however it wouldn’t be fair for Mr B to have the benefit of both remedies – a
reduction in price and a refund of part of it. Nor do I believe that it would be fair to reimburse
the extra money that Mr B paid for the carpet in the fifth bedroom; a refund of the price of the
carpet that S should have supplied would adequately compensate him for not receiving it.
The investigator said as well that Creation should have assisted Mr B in his dealings with S,
and suggested compensation of £150 in recognition of that. However, Mr B was dealing with
S and I don’t believe that would have been helped by Creation; in my view it was appropriate
for Mr B and S to discuss how best to resolve the issue.
There is in my view a more fundamental issue here. Mr B has been in correspondence with
S, which has made offers of settlement. This is not a case where a supplier has, for
example, refused to engage or is no longer in business. Work has not been completed, and
Creation is not in a position to ensure that it is.
In addition, Mr B referred his complaint about S to the retail ombudsman. Discussions
continued after the ombudsman’s decision, but no resolution was reached. To some extent,
therefore, Mr B is seeking from Creation a remedy that he hasn’t been able to obtain from S.
I would note as well that the loan agreement and the sales contract are separate in this
case. By that I mean that, even if Mr B were to reach an agreement with S, he would still
owe Creation the same under the loan agreement. The two are linked to some degree by
section 75 and by the fact that S acted as an intermediary, but there’s no direct link.
My present view is that any award that I might make in the context of this complaint is
unlikely to vary significantly from S’s existing offers – save that I would require Creation to
implement it. It would then be for Creation to seek reimbursement under any arrangements it
might have with S. For that reason, I believe it’s more appropriate for Mr B to continue to
deal directly with S to resolve this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I say that in the context of this complaint only. I make no
comment about other complaints under section 75, where often it is appropriate for this
service to make awards requiring finance providers to resolve complaints about the supply of
goods and services by third parties.
In the circumstances here, however, I do not believe it would be appropriate or helpful to the
overall resolution of Mr B’s complaint for me to make an award – although it may be that my
comments about the underlying issues are helpful. I shall however review these provisional
findings in the light of any further submissions the parties might make.
Mr B’s response to my provisional decision
Mr B did not accept my provisional decision and said, in summary:

The offer of a 10% reduction and delivery of the remaining carpets would not properly 
compensate him, since he had already £550 for a carpet for the fifth bedroom.

The alternative offer would not compensate him either, because again he had paid £550 
for the fifth bedroom carpet. S had not provided a breakdown showing how it had 
reached the figure in the offer. 

S’s handling of the matter had been very poor. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr B thinks the offer of a 10% overall price reduction is not reasonable. I 
noted in my provisional decision that the retail ombudsman thought it was, but I also said it 
appeared that conclusion was reached on the basis of incomplete information. I also said 
that this remedy could no longer be provided, since S could not complete the carpet fitting in 
the fifth bedroom. 
The alternative remedy, however, was based on a refund of a proportion of the overall 
contract price. The intention was to put Mr B in a position where he could pay to have the 
missing carpets supplied and fitted. That would include the carpet in the fifth bedroom. As a 
principle, that seems to me to be broadly fair. A reduction and a refund of the £550 Mr B 
spent on different carpet would, in part, compensate Mr B twice. 
I can understand why Mr B would like a breakdown of S’s offer. Creation is not however in a 
position to provide that. 
I note as well that Mr B is very unhappy about the way S handled his complaint. Under 
section 75, however, the claim Mr B has against Creation is a “like claim” to any claim he 
has against S for breach of contract or misrepresentation. His complaint about the way S 
dealt with his complaint is not a claim for breach of contract or for misrepresentation, so it’s 
not something for which I can properly make an award against Creation. 
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that Mr B’s concerns are better dealt with by S and that I should not make an award against 
Creation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr B’s complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
