DRN-2979411
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”) haven’t supported a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) about sofas 
she purchased not being of an acceptable standard.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a point of 
sale loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
But here I’m afraid I’m not persuaded Mrs S has provided enough evidence that there was a 
breach of contract or that there was a misrepresentation.
Mrs S says the contract was breached because the goods were not of satisfactory quality. 
She says they weren’t the size she was promised and consequently one of them wouldn’t fit 
through the doors and the remaining sofa is too large for the space it sits in.
I don’t think I have enough evidence to suggest the sofas were a custom fit. Whilst I 
understand Mrs S says she consulted with the supplier and the sofas should have been a 
different size to fit her room and doorways. I don’t have any further evidence of that and CCF 
have explained that those sofas are sold in a standard size; are not made to measure and 
the consumer is responsible for ensuring what they buy will fit. I’m not persuaded there has 
been a breach of contract here.
Mrs S says the sofas were misrepresented to her. She says that the terms and conditions, 
exclusions and deadlines were not explained to her. She also says that insurance was mis 
sold as the terms weren’t explained and she already had insurance.
On the evidence available to me I think it is reasonable to have expected Mrs S to read and 
understand the conditions and the insurance cover, that was also financed through the point 
of sale loan, before she signed the documents. I don’t think there’s evidence that she was 
presented with any false statement and I think the contracts explained the terms accurately.
I can see that the supplier has refunded one sofa that didn’t fit through the doors and, given 
the circumstances, that seems a fair action to take. So, I don’t think there’s evidence that 
CFF were unreasonable when rejecting Mrs S’s section 75 claim and I’m not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
