DRN-3502618
The complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd had recorded loans in her name that 
she says were taken out fraudulently.
What happened
Miss B contacted Creation about the loans. She said that these were taken out in 2018 by a 
family member without her knowledge. She was unhappy that it didn’t deal with this.
Creation upheld her complaint on the basis that it didn’t provide sufficient details to Miss B to 
help with the fraud claim and this caused delays. It said that this was resolved by the 
accounts being closed.
Our investigator noted from a recent copy of Miss B’s credit record that one account was still 
showing and with a default. He recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Creation be 
required to remove this entry and compensate Miss B £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Miss B agreed with this resolution, but Creation didn’t respond so the complaint was passed 
for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in the final response letter of 2 June 2021 Creation stated that its fraud 
department would be contacting Miss B about the next steps. And on 6 September 2021 a 
letter was sent to Miss B stating that the accounts referred to had been closed. And that “a 
request will be sent to credit reference agencies to remove any data relating to this account 
from your credit file. Please be aware that this may take a few weeks for the relevant agency 
to action.”
Miss B had provided a copy of her credit record from one agency produced on 21 April 2022. 
One of the loans is still showing and with a default. She’s explained to this service the efforts 
she made to contact Creation before she complained.
Given that Creation has agreed to close the accounts and remove the data I don’t need to 
make any findings about the way in which these applications were made. But in the 
circumstances I do think it reasonable that Miss B receives compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her and that Creation now takes the action it’s agreed to.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:
1) To remove the reported information to credit reference agencies about all these 
loans.
2) To pay Miss B £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman
