 
 
DRN-5091012 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Mr P has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from October 2024, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that Mr P was induced into 
buying the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by misrepresentations, which 
resulted in there being an unfair relationship between him and Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Neither has responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
 
“What happened 
 
In November 2013, Mr P bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
 
Mr P complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and electricity savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
and would have entirely paid for themselves within eight years. However that hasn’t 
happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time 
of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr P had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. 
 
An adjudicator considered Mr P’s complaint, she ultimately thought that – 
  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s answer 
seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been referred 
in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr P and Creation.  
 
 
She recommended that Mr P keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr P had paid 
so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
She also recommended an award of £100 distress and inconvenience as a result of the poor and 
protracted way in which Creation had dealt with this matter. 
 
Mr P accepted the adjudicator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr P’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr P’s s.75 claim on 15 
June 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr P brought his 
complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 June 2022. So, his complaint in relation to 
the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the complaint 
about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the complaint was brought 
in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation per 
s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, 
for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship with him. This 
accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc 
[2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it sets 
out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a 
court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the credit agreement 
and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their rights under these 
agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after 
the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. A court must make its determination 
under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, including matters relating to the creditor 
and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the entirety of 
the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the determination”. 
The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is the date of trial, if the 
credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the credit relationship ended. 
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with the 
borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should take the 
steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the 
consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see 
 
 
Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a 
consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A 
when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is ongoing, whether it is still unfair at 
the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and 
matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled is 
responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr P’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its relationship 
with Mr P unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or mitigate its 
consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his complaint on the 
unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr P therefore complained 
about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I am 
otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to consider and 
it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr P’s complaint has been brought in time for the purposes 
of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be considered 
under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a court 
must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit 
agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or not done) by or 
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation by the creditor 
or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me 
to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when considering whether it is 
likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr P has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make on his electricity 
charges. I haven’t seen any evidence he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels before 
speaking with M. 
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr P to see if there was anything contained within them 
that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
 
 
I have a copy of the loan agreement, which shows that both the total amount payable, and the 
monthly cost of the loan were clear to Mr P. However, there is no mention on the agreement of 
the potential benefits of the panels. 
 
Mr P has also been able to provide his (faded) copy of a document called a “Solar Assessment 
Survey”, provided by M, which has a section headed, “Your Potential Income/Savings”. This 
document was clearly hand-written and the print is very faint. 
 
But I have given it particular scrutiny as it does set out “potential income” figures, so I’ve 
considered carefully whether it ought to have led Mr P to realise that the panels wouldn’t, in fact, 
pay for themselves. 
 
Overall, I don’t think it does make it clear that panels won’t be self-funding. Whilst the potential 
year one income appears to be said to be about £493, which would be significantly less than 12 
monthly repayments, the other figures shown in this section suggest a different picture. Firstly, the 
potential 20-year income appears to be £13,135.90. The second digit in this figure is particularly 
faint, but having looked at it in different lights, at different sizes, and in contrast with other figures 
shown more clearly on the document, I find that it is more likely than not that it is a ‘3’. Secondly, 
directly under that the “total cost of system inc vat” is set out as being £10,470. This sum entirely 
neglects the interest payable via the credit agreement being brokered by M. So I don’t find that 
this is clear information, as £10,470 is not the “total cost” to Mr P in any meaningful way.  
 
I find what Mr P has said to be believable. Given the credit agreement doesn’t contain information 
about the benefits, Mr P would have looked to M’s representative to help him understand what the 
panels would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. As mentioned, I’ve seen 
no evidence of any motivation other than a financial one on Mr P’s part to agree to the panel 
installation. I’m of the opinion that money would be a key reason to purchase the system and his 
savings on his electricity bills and income from the FIT scheme would have been a central part of 
the conversation with a salesperson. On balance, I think it is more likely than not that Mr P would 
not have agreed to the installation of the panels if M had made it clear that it would leave him out 
of pocket. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr P’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr P left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment 
of around £98, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial burden he 
took on I find Mr P’s account of what he was told by M credible and persuasive. The loan is a 
costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase as appealing 
had he not been given the reassurances about saving money he’s said he received from M. 
 
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code. 
 
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In September 2014, it determined that M was in breach of a 
number of sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two 
sections relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers 
and providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the findings 
do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr P’s complaint around 
the time that he was sold his system. 
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings and 
FIT income of around £1,160 per year. His system has clearly not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think the M’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr 
P’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the 
calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think M’s 
representative would have known that Mr P’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover 
the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr P. 
 
 
 
Considering Mr P’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the time 
of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr P a false 
and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr P was expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis 
upon which Mr P went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were seriously 
misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that, because of this, the relationship between Mr P and 
Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had to pay 
more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost of the loan. 
So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would otherwise have not 
taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of Mr P’s 
s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the unfairness of 
Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false assurances as to the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr P a sum that corresponds to 
the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr 
P’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the 
duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, I plan to direct Creation to recalculate the agreement based 
on the known and assumed savings and income Mr P received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider the 
benefit Mr P received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr P will need 
to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and 
current meter readings to Creation. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr P’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr P some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay 
Mr P £100.” 
 
As mentioned above, neither Mr P nor Creation has replied to my provisional decision. 
Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out therein. And so it follows 
that I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Mr P, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must now: 
  
 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr P has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr P  
*If Mr P is not able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or FIT 
benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
I also think the way Creation handled Mr P’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
