DRN-3081095
The complaint
Ms D complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly when they 
provided her with a loan. She also thinks her repayments haven’t been applied to her 
account correctly, Creation were unsupportive of her financial situation and she is unhappy 
that her loan details were provided to a third party.
What happened
Ms D took a loan with Creation for £15,000 in early 2015. 
Ms D said that in May 2019, she paid her usual repayment of £341.95 although, at the time, 
she was struggling financially. On 17 June 2019, she emailed Creation to explain her 
finances were tight as she had to cover the funeral costs of a relative. She said Creation 
replied on 24 June 2019 confirming they’d made a note of this on her account. Ms D emailed 
Creation again on 20 August 2019 advising them she would make a payment of £341.95 on 
15 September 2019 and hoped to maintain payments after that. 
Ms D said she received an email from Creation’s legal advisers at the end of August 2019 
requesting that missed payments were brought up to date. She said they included a 
transaction statement showing she hadn’t made a payment in the previous period.  She 
believed this wasn’t right as she’d made a payment in May 2019. 
Ms D said she then made a payment of £341.95 on 5 September 2019.
Ms D didn’t think that Creation had acted fairly here. She said she’d told them about her 
financial situation, and they needed to act reasonably in her circumstances. She also 
thought that Creation had breached her data protection rights by providing her personal 
account information to their legal advisors without her permission.
So, Ms D wrote to Creation in September 2019 to raise a complaint about her concerns. She 
also said Creation had acted irresponsibly in first agreeing the loan.
Creation responded to Ms D’s complaint in November 2019. But they didn’t agree they’d 
done anything wrong. They said Ms D had already complained to them in 2017 about 
irresponsibly agreeing to the loan. They said that they’d already addressed this in their 
response in February 2018.
They also explained that her debt had been transferred to another party in December 2017 
before being returned to them in July 2018. They said that Ms D had explained to them she 
was experiencing financial difficulties and they wrote to her in February 2019 about this. 
They said they passed her account to their legal advisors in August 2019 when she didn’t 
respond to them.
Ms D wasn’t happy with Creation’s response to her complaint. So, she referred matters to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into Ms D’s complaint. She didn’t think that 
Creation had acted unfairly or done anything wrong. She also said that Ms D’s suggestion of 
irresponsible lending had previously been looked at by this service and a final decision 
issued. This aspect couldn’t be considered again.
Ms D didn’t agree with our investigator’s findings. She asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to clarify that Ms D’s first complaint that Creation acted irresponsibly 
when they originally agreed to lend to her was previously addressed and responded to by 
Creation. That complaint was referred to this service and a final decision was issued in 2019. 
So, I’m unable to look at this aspect further.
I’ve reviewed Ms D’s loan statement information. It appears the loan was first agreed and 
taken in early 2015. In April 2016, Ms D cancelled her loan repayment direct debit 
instruction. She started to make manual repayments to her loan instead. Repayments 
appear to then stop in May 2017 and in September 2017 Ms D submitted her first complaint 
to Creation. 
From what I’ve seen, it appears Ms D was no longer making payments or communicating 
with Creation about her financial situation. So, in December 2017, Creation passed her 
account to a debt collection agency. I believe they were entitled to do that here. I’ve not been 
provided with any information to confirm what, if any, communication there was between 
Creation, Ms D or the debt collection agency. But given this period coincided with when Ms 
D’s complaint was being investigated by Creation, and then this service, I can appreciate 
why that might be. Creation said Ms D’s account was returned to them by the debt collection 
agency in July 2018.
This service issued a Final Decision about Ms D’s first complaint in January 2019. Creation 
then wrote to Ms D asking her to contact them about her ongoing financial situation. They 
were aware she’d been experiencing financial difficulties. But Creation say they didn’t 
receive a response from Ms D. Her manual repayments restarted at that point and continued 
until May 2019.
Following Ms D’s email to Creation in June 2019, her payments stopped again. So, given the 
previously missed payments and Ms D’s lack of response to Creations invitation to discuss 
her situation in February 2019, Creation decided to refer her account to their legal advisors. I 
believe Creation were entitled to do that here. Their lending agreement made specific 
provision permitting them to take legal action to recover the debt in the event of a default. Ms 
D had missed payments and failed to discuss her current situation with Creation in detail. As 
this constitutes a default, I can’t fairly say that Creation did anything wrong in appointing their 
legal advisors.
In the absence of realistic proposals to repay the outstanding debt, Creation’s legal advisors 
applied to the court to issue a County Court Judgment (CCJ). Again, they were entitled to do 
that on Creation’s behalf. 
Ms D has challenged the amount of the judgment. This service can consider an act or 
omission that occurred before the judgment, as long as it arises from a regulated activity. As 
the loan is a regulated credit agreement, I can consider any outstanding issues not already 
consider within the judgement. However, as the amount of the debt was presented and 
proven in the court and is, therefore, included within their judgment, it has already been the 
subject of court proceedings. So, this service is unable to consider this aspect of Ms D’s 
complaint.
In conclusion, while I appreciate Ms D’s strength of feeling here, I can’t reasonably say that 
Creation have acted unfairly or done anything wrong here. As a result of payments missed, 
while Creation made attempts to discuss the situation with Ms D, an agreement couldn’t be 
reached. So, I believe they were entitled to take the steps they did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Ms D’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman
