 
 
DRN-5026953 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H complains about a credit agreement he took out with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
in relation to some home energy improvements. More specifically, that Creation did not 
accept his claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened 
In June 2014 Mr H entered into a Green Deal arrangement with a company I shall refer to as 
H. It was agreed that Mr H would receive solid wall insulation and solar panels. The total 
price for all of these new items was £15,000 and this was to be funded mostly through a 
Green Deal loan and a loan with Creation. The remaining amount of approximately £4,130 
appears to have been funded by Mr H selling the rights to the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments 
that would be generated through the solar panels.  
Mr H is represented in his complaint but for ease I have referred to all submissions from Mr 
H and his representative as if made by Mr H. Mr H has said that he was told the Gren Deal 
arrangement would be fully self-funded and the new items would therefore not actually cost 
him anything. Mr H believes the arrangement was misrepresented to him as it has actually 
cost him money and the arrangement has not been self-funding as he was told.  
Mr H believes he has valid claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act and is 
unhappy that Creation has not upheld his claims.  
Creation did not consider that Mr H had submitted his claims in time and it believes this 
complaint is outside the time limits permitted in the FCA’s DISP Rules. An ombudsman’s 
decision was issued on this case setting out Mr H’s s.75 complaint was one that our service 
could consider and the complaint was passed to an investigator to consider.  
In summary, the investigator found that when considering s.75 and the Limitations Act, Mr 
H’s s.75 claim is likely to be time barred as it was made to late. This was because Mr H had 
submitted his claim more than 6 years from the date he had entered into the loan agreement 
and suffered a loss.  
The investigator set out how the limitation period in relation to a s.140A claim starts from 
when the relationship between the parties ended and as the relationship is ongoing, Mr H’s 
claim under s.140A has been made in time.  
The investigator found that Mr H’s complaint about misrepresentation can be considered 
under s.140A, through s.56 Consumer Credit Act as H was acting as Creation’s agent when 
negotiating the provisions of the loan and the sale of energy efficient measures. When 
considering the evidence presented in this case, which included the requirements of the 
‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme, there had been a misrepresentation to Mr H. 
And that Mr H had relied on that misrepresentation when deciding to enter into the contract 
with H, and he had suffered a financial loss as a result of this.  
The investigator upheld Mr H’s complaint and set out what Creation should now do to put 
things right.  
 
 
Mr H accepted what the investigator had set out and proposed. We did not receive a 
response to the investigator’s view from Creation on this specific complaint. As the complaint 
could not be resolved informally, it was referred to me for consideration as the last stage in 
our process. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to uphold the complaint and 
what Creation should now do to out things right. In that provisional decision I set out the 
following: 
The Green Deal 
 
Before I set out my findings in this case I think it will be helpful to include some further details 
of the Green Deal scheme and in particular the ‘Golden Rule’.  
 
The energy efficient measures that Mr H entered into with H were through the government 
Green Deal initiative. It will be helpful therefore to set out some detail around this initiative 
and in particular the requirements of the ‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme.  
 
The Green Deal scheme was a government backed initiative intended to remove the upfront 
cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes. It did this by 
allowing Green Deal Providers (“Provider”) to enter finance agreements with consumers to 
pay for the measures, which were then repaid via the consumer’s electricity bill. The finance 
agreement was part of what was known as the Green Deal Plan (“Plan”). 
 
The Green Deal Provider Guidance issued by the Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(now part of the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy) set out the general 
structure of a Green Deal arrangement and the duties and responsibilities of various parties. 
Typically, this worked as follows: 
 
• 
If a consumer was interested in the Green Deal arrangement, an accredited Green 
Deal Assessor (“Assessor”) would visit their home and assess possible 
improvements the consumer could introduce to make the home more energy 
efficient. This assessment should have taken place at least 24 hours after any initial 
introduction to the Green Deal scheme, unless the consumer opted to waive their 
right to this in writing. 
 
• 
The Assessor produced an Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) which showed 
the energy use of a typical household of the relevant type. And a Green Deal Advice 
Report (“GDAR”), which included an Occupancy Assessment certificate (“OA”). 
 
• 
The OA formed part of the qualifying assessment. And would have set out the actual 
use of energy by the customer’s household at the time the assessment was carried 
out. It then detailed the potential measures which could improve energy efficiency for 
the property and what savings these measures would likely lead to. 
 
• 
Once a GDAR was registered in a centralised register, it could be taken to any 
Provider, or several, to obtain quotes for a Plan. The Provider should have ensured 
that the quote covered all payments that were to be recovered from the consumer for 
supply and installation of the improvements and the provision of credit. 
 
• 
It was the Provider who was ultimately responsible for designing the specification of 
works and the implementation of the Plan. This would include ensuring that the 
improvement measures were properly integrated into the overarching design of the 
package of improvements agreed upon. 
 
 
 
• 
The Provider would arrange for a Green Deal Installer (“Installer”) to install the 
measures under the plan. The Provider had to provide the Installer with a clear 
design and specification for all works to be carried out, including how the various 
products should be integrated into the overarching design for the package of 
improvements.  
 
• 
Once the installation was complete, the Green Deal payments were collected by 
electricity suppliers alongside the collection of energy payments. In doing so, the 
supplier would be acting on behalf of the Provider. 
 
• 
The Plan was a contract between the Provider and the consumer. It was a contract 
for energy efficiency improvements to be made to a property and for finance to pay 
for those improvements. 
 
• 
The Provider had to establish the Plan in line with requirements set out in the Energy 
Act 2011, the Green Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) 
Regulations 2012 (“the Framework”) and the Green Deal Code of Practice. 
 
The Golden Rule 
 
A significant key principle of the Green Deal scheme was that the amount of finance that 
could be provided for the improvement measures was limited to the estimated financial 
benefit to the customer that was likely to be made by those measures. This limitation was 
partly constructed through a comparison of the estimated saving from having the benefits 
with the repayments made, in the first year of the agreement. 
 
This principle is known as the “Golden Rule” and it forms part of the legislative provisions 
governing Plans. Regulation 30 of the Framework stated: “The first year instalments must 
not exceed the estimated first year savings…” 
 
As the Plan remained with the property, and so was not dependent on the usage of energy 
by the specific occupant at the time of the assessment, the total amount of finance that could 
be provided was based on the benefits that could be achieved for a typical property of the 
type the consumer had. 
 
Before entering into a Plan, the Provider had to estimate the overall savings which were 
likely to be made if the improvements were carried out. It was also the responsibility of the 
Provider to ensure that the “Golden Rule” was satisfied and that it was properly explained to 
the consumer.  
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
S.140A Consumer Credit Act 
 
 
As the investigator has already set out in some detail, Mr H has complained about the 
misrepresentations made by H have created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A 
Consumer Credit Act. Mr H is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between 
himself and Creation per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an 
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing 
unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit 
relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on going, whether it is 
still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr H’s case the relationship was I understand ongoing when he referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which 
made its relationship with Mr H unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that 
unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By 
relying in his complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and 
Creation, Mr H therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr H’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by H can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming H to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair 
relationship those negotiations and arrangements by H for which Creation was responsible 
under s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr H.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
Mr H’s case 
Mr H says he was misled that the new measures would effectively pay for themselves. I’ve 
taken account of what Mr H says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied 
The cost of the solar panels and solid wall insulation was £15,000. This was to be funded by 
a green deal loan of £5,420.76 and a £6,100 loan with Creation. These two loans are 
insufficient to cover the cost of items and I understand the remaining amount was to be 
funded by Mr H selling his FIT rights. Mr H would be eligible for FIT payments as he was 
installing solar panels but instead of receiving those payments, I understand Mr H 
transferred those rights away and these were then used to offset the remaining amount 
required to cover the £15,000 cost.  
Mr H’s Green Deal Advice Report Occupancy Assessment refers to the estimated household 
annual savings of £430 if he proceeds with the recommended improvements of solid wall 
insulation and solar photovoltaic panels. The Green Deal Plan Summary refers to the first 
year savings that he can expect to make on his energy bills based on the improvements 
being made for a typical property. This is noted as being £443. 
H was responsible for ensuring that the whole package of instalments was taken into 
account when producing the Plan. The Green Deal Provider Guidance states:  
“The Green Deal Provider has responsibility for designing the specification of works 
to be carried out for the property in question. In practice this means working with the 
customer to select products and ensuring that they are properly integrated into the 
overarching design of the package of improvements agreed upon. This is important 
in development of the quote stage because costing will depend on, amongst other 
things, the price of the products and any requirements for integration. It is the Green 
Deal Provider’s responsibility to ensure that they take any necessary steps to satisfy 
themselves and their customers that the specification of works is comprehensive, 
ensures the proper integration of measures and meets all the necessary 
requirements.” 
 
 
And: 
“The Green Deal Provider should ensure that the quote issued to the customer 
covers all payments that are to be recovered from the Improver and bill payer for 
supply and installation of the improvements and the provision of credit.”  
So, I think it reasonable that H should have known that not all of the cost was being funded 
by the Plan.  
The annual repayments required under the Green Deal credit agreement are approximately 
£438, which is less than the £443 saving referred to on the Green Deal Plan Summary, but 
more than the £430 potential saving mentioned in the Green Deal Advice Report Occupancy 
Assessment.  
But the cost of the energy efficient measures Mr H was acquiring far exceeded the amount 
being borrowed under the Green Deal loan and Mr H was therefore required to make 
repayments to Creation for the £6,100 loan, in addition to the repayments to the Green Deal 
loan. When including the required repayments for the Creation loan, the Golden Rule was 
not even close to be being met.  
Furthermore, one of the well-known benefits of solar panels is that the consumer is then 
eligible for FIT payments. From what I have seen in this case, I think it is more likely than not 
that the FIT payments would have been incorporated into the savings that Mr H was told he 
would receive. But as already referred to above, it appears Mr H would not be in receipt of 
the FIT payments as these were transferred elsewhere to cover the remaining £4,130 cost of 
the measures that were not funded by the Green Deal or Creation loans.  
Mr H has provided a copy of the Transfer of rights to payments to [the recipient] which 
appears to be an agreement between Mr H and a third party and includes a ‘Buy Out Price’ 
of £4,251. This is I understand what Mr H would potentially need to pay to start to receive 
the FIT payments. This document further supports the view that Mr H had transferred the FIT 
rights so these could be offset to cover the remaining amount due that was not met by the 
two loans. 
H should also have been aware that any assignment of FIT payments to a third party would 
lower the overall savings that the customer would make as a result of the measures. So, if a 
customer needed to assign part of the FIT payments to a third party in order to be able to 
afford to have the measures installed, the associated reduction in the overall savings would 
need to be taken into account when considering whether the Plan – including the whole 
package of agreed improvements – met the Golden Rule.  
In Mr H’s case, H should have been aware that the overall savings estimated to be achieved 
under the Plan were partly based on measures that were not being financed by the loan it 
was providing. And I think H should have made sure that this would not reduce the overall 
saving that would be achieved for Mr H.  
As the assignment of part of the FIT rights did reduce this overall saving below the annual 
cost of the finance, I don’t consider the Plan met the Golden Rule. I also think that by 
indicating to Mr H that the measures being financed through the Plan would result in an 
estimated overall saving, H provided Mr H with misleading information.  
Mr H has been consistent and clear about his intentions of taking out the energy efficient 
measures here and that it was because he was told they would be self-funding and therefore 
essentially cost him nothing. Had Mr H been made aware that the installation of the 
measures would come at a net cost to him, I don’t think he would have agreed to the Plan. I 
 
 
don’t think he would have agreed to have the solid wall insulation and solar panels installed 
or have entered the finance agreement with Creation. 
Mr H complains about the arrangement being misrepresented to him and a 
misrepresentation is generally considered to be a false statement of fact that has the result 
of inducing the other party to enter a contract. For the reasons set out here, I am satisfied 
that there was a false statement of fact around the actual cost of the measures as these 
were not self-funding as Mr H was led to believe. Mr H has said that it was that the 
measures would be self-funding and therefore not cost him anything that was behind his 
decision to enter into the agreement. This is to me entirely plausible, and I’m satisfied the 
false statement about the measures being self-funding is what induced Mr H into entering 
into the arrangement.   
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
The relationship between Mr H and Creation was built on the misrepresentation made by H, 
Creation’s agent and having considered the submissions in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr H would not have agreed to take out the energy efficiency measures 
had he been correctly informed about the true costs of the arrangements.  
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month Mr H has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his energy efficient 
benefits and the cost of the loans. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid 
on a loan he would otherwise have not taken out. 
In my view, the original misrepresentations and the resulting collection of the loan 
repayments gave rise to the level of unfairness required to trigger a likely finding by a Court 
under s.140A. As the investigator has set out, the whole relationship is tainted by the untrue 
statements made by Creation’s agent. 
 
It follows that I think a court would likely find the relationship in question unfair. Given that, 
I’ve also concluded that Mr H has suffered a loss through entering the agreement. And I find 
that he’s been treated unfairly and unreasonably and as a result his complaint should be 
upheld. 
 
Putting things right 
As I am persuaded a court would find the relationship between Creation and Mr H to have 
been unfair I will now set out what I consider to be fair and reasonable redress. 
The aim of any award will be to try and put Mr H in the position he would have been in had 
an unfair relationship not been created and H had not misrepresented the benefits of the 
solar panel system and solid wall insulation. But to achieve this Creation would need to 
arrange for the removal of the solar panels, and wall insulation. This is likely to be expensive 
to Creation, who would need to employ other parties to carry out the work. And this would 
create significant disruption Mr H. I’m also mindful of these items working in line with the way 
they should and would likely be scrapped if now removed. It would therefore be more 
reasonable in my view for the solar panels and wall insulation to stay in place.   
Mr H agreed to purchase the energy efficient measures on the basis that they would be self-
funding. So I’ve considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to take 
action now to ensure that Mr H does not lose out financially and the package of measures 
Mr H received don’t cost him more than the benefits he’s receiving and will continue to 
receive. I appreciate this is not our service’s normal approach where there has been a 
misrepresentation, but I’m satisfied this is a fair remedy in this instance when considering the 
 
 
alternatives. 
The cost of the solar panels and insulation was £8,000 and £7,000 respectively. The 
repayment period for each of the measures under the Green Deal finance is 23 and 25 years 
respectively. The first year estimated savings was £430 on the Green Deal Occupancy 
Report Occupancy Assessment. This is broken down as £58 for the insulation and £372 for 
the solar panels.  
The repayment terms of the insulation is shown to be 25 years on the Green Deal credit 
agreement. When considering what the Golden Rule sets out and what Mr H was led to 
believe, it would be reasonable in my view to limit the amount he should pay for the 
insulation to an amount equivalent to the savings he would have likely received over the 
repayment term.  
I calculate that to be £1,450 (£58 X 25 years). Turning to the solar panels, as I have set out 
above, Mr H has not received the FIT payments for the solar panels. But he would however 
have received the savings on his electricity usage, and it would in my view be reasonable to 
include these savings in any repayment calculation.   
The Energy Savings Trust has looked at the electricity usage at a wide range of properties 
over different times in the day, they found that on average consumers actually used 37% of 
the energy from their panels to reduce their electricity usage. Bearing this in mind, I think 
37% of £372 was likely the first-year benefit Mr H received from the panels, which is 
£137.64. The Green Deal credit agreement says the repayment period for the panels is 23 
years and in my view Mr H should therefore pay no more than £3,165.72 for this measure. 
 
So for the two energy saving measures Mr H should be required to pay no more than 
£4,615.72 (£1,450 + £3,165.72) in total. Creation should now take steps to ensure Mr H 
does not pay more than £4,615.72 across both the Green Deal loan and Creation loan. To 
do this, Creation should: 
 
• 
Cancel the Creation credit agreement, write off any outstanding loan balance and 
remove any records of this loan from Mr H’s credit files. 
 
• 
Refund any instalments paid, with 8% simple interest which should be calculated 
from the date of the payment to the date of the settlement. 
 
Creation should also calculate how much Mr H has paid towards the Green Deal loan: 
 
• 
If he has paid more than £4,615.72 Creation should refund any payments made 
above that amount, with 8% simple interest and compensate him for the outstanding 
amount left on the Green Deal loan. 
 
• 
If Mr H has not yet paid £4,615.72, Creation should compensate him for any 
payments due under the Green Deal loan above this amount. 
 
Finally, as I’ve already mentioned, the rights to receive FIT payments were transferred to a 
third party to fund the remaining costs of the measures. I haven’t seen a full copy of the 
contract for this transfer, but it seems Mr H may be liable to pay a buyout price, if in the 
future, he decides to remove the solar panels from the property and/or sell his house. The 
contract may also place other obligations on Mr H. 
 
Without seeing the full contract, itself, at this stage it’s unclear what the liabilities could be, if 
any. Additionally, there’s no guarantee when these liabilities will arise, if at all. Therefore, to 
 
 
resolve this issue, it would be reasonable for Creation to propose to undertake any/all 
liabilities that may arise from a third party, in relation to the sale of the FIT contract. 
 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr H’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd and direct it to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above 
in the putting things right section. 
I invited further comment from both parties. Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but I did 
not receive a response from Creation.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr H has accepted my provisional decision and I have not received anything further from 
Creation. In the absence of any new or alternative arguments, I’ve come to the same overall 
conclusions as set out in my provisional decision. I’m satisfied, for the same reasons 
previously explained above, that Mr H’s complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct it to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above in the 
Putting things right section of this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2024.  
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
