DRN-3290812
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to remove records of an 
individual voluntary arrangement from his credit file.
What happened
In June 2011 Mr M entered into an IVA. Creation was one of his creditors. The IVA ended in 
January 2020.
Mr M says that Creation should’ve removed an adverse marker from his credit file when the 
IVA ended but failed to do so. He complained to Creation.
In response, Creation said it should’ve applied a default to Mr M’s credit file at the time he 
entered into the IVA, and that after 6 years, the default would no longer have shown on his 
credit file. Creation acknowledged that this wasn’t what had happened. It said it had 
requested to remove the entry and offered £600 compensation.
Mr M accepted the compensation, but the adverse information remained on his credit file for 
another 6 months before it was removed. Mr M brought his complaint to this service because 
he doesn’t feel that the compensation he’s received is a fair reflection of the impact this has 
had on him. He says the entry on his credit file meant that he was refused mortgage offers 
and lost the opportunity to take advantage of the stamp duty holiday.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He wasn’t persuaded that the adverse data reported 
by Creation was the sole reason for Mr M not being able to get a new mortgage, but said it 
was clear that Creation hadn’t done all it should have done, which had caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr M. Then investigator recommend that Creation should pay a further 
£150 compensation in addition to the £600 already paid.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it didn’t dispute that it had made an error but said that it thought 
the compensation it had paid already was fair.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation doesn’t dispute that it made an error in the way it reported on Mr M’s credit file. It 
says that it should’ve applied a default to the account in June 2011 when the IVA started, 
and that the default should’ve dropped off the credit file 6 years later. Creation accepts that it 
reported incorrectly. It says it took steps to correct this and paid compensation of £600 which 
it thinks is fair.
Mr M has explained that he’s been trying to get a mortgage since 2019 and that he’s been 
refused several times. He says that as a result, he’s been stuck on an unfavourable rate, 
and that as soon as his credit file was amended, he managed to get a new mortgage 
straightaway.
I’ve thought about what both parties have said. I’ve looked at the records that Mr M has 
provided from his credit file and I have no reason to disbelieve him when he says he was 
declined a mortgage. That said, I haven’t seen any evidence to persuade me that Creations’ 
adverse entry was the main reason for Mr M being declined a mortgage. So, I’m unable to 
say that Creation should compensate for the losses he says he’s suffered as a result of not 
being able to get a mortgage.
Putting things right
I can see that after Creation acknowledged its error and told Mr M that it would correct his 
credit file, it took several more months before things were resolved. I’ve taken account of the 
impact that this further delay had on Mr M. Its clear that Mr M has been caused significant 
distress over an extended period of time. I don’t think the compensation paid by Creation is 
fair in the circumstances. A further sum of £150 should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
further compensation of £150 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
