DRN-3521468
The complaint
Mr B has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in October 
2020, using a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
Mr B acquired a used Mercedes car in October 2020, using a hire purchase agreement. The 
cost of the car was £13,850, and of this, Mr B borrowed £10,033 over 60 months. The 
monthly cost was £224.04. The car was around five and half years old and the mileage was 
recorded as 21,790 at the point of sale. 
Mr B said that problems began to arise with the car immediately after he acquired it. In 
summary, Mr B told us that the passenger-side indicator light on the mirror, and the steering-
wheel functions including the horn, didn’t work, the tread on the nearside rear tyre was close 
to the legal limit, the internal screen didn’t work, there was water ingress to the car, and a 
bonnet malfunction message was showing on the dashboard. 
Further issues were identified when the car was looked at by a mechanic – there were 
problems with the windscreen and the back seat wasn’t properly secured.
These issues were repaired in March 2021, although Mr B was not reimbursed in full by the 
dealership – it contributed £262. Mr B paid £423.94 on top of that to get the repairs done, as 
well as a further £186 for reports on the car – so the cost to Mr B was £609.94 in total. Mr B 
was unhappy that he had to pay for these repairs. 
Mr B then told us that two months later, in May 2021, the car had a serious oil leak. Mr B 
took the car to a local garage and the mechanic noted the fault as an excessive amount of 
oil in the coolant expansion tank and oil leaking from the coolant expansion cap. The 
mechanic suspected a faulty oil cooler. The car has been rendered inoperable and Mr B now 
wishes to reject it.
Creation said that it didn’t think the current problem was there at the point of sale, and 
therefore it didn’t consider itself responsible for it.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and proposed compensation for Mr 
B. Creation didn’t respond at first, so the complaint was passed to me for review. Creation 
then twice said it was awaiting comments from the dealer. But despite further contact from 
our investigator, Creation has not provided any further evidence or information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Because Creation supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, it’s responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and there’s an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable – that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was around five and a half years old. And the price was lower 
than that of a new car. So it’s reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered 
a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and 
maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
I’ve taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (“CRA”). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they don’t conform to contract – a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasn’t resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming – that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr B provided about the sequence of events. The first 
faults occurred almost immediately after Mr B took delivery of the car, but he didn’t, at that 
point, reject the car, so I am not considering the short term right to reject under the CRA 
here. 
Mr B provided invoices for two reports he obtained, costing £186, and invoices for repairs 
(relating to the initial faults) costing £685.94, so he paid out £871.94 in total. Mr B confirmed 
the supplying dealer made a part contribution of £262 to the repairs, reducing his outlay to 
£609.94. Mr B also provided copies of several email exchanges with the dealer in relation to 
the initial faults, along with supporting photographic evidence. Mr B has not proceeded with 
repairs in relation to the oil leak, and now wishes to reject the car.
I also have a copy of the independent report on the car that was commissioned by Creation. 
As I noted above, Mr B sent in a report from a local garage regarding the oil leak, with the 
suspected cause being a faulty oil cooler. The independent report goes into much more 
detail about the car, but it confirms the oil leak. It goes on to say that confirmation of the 
exact cause of oil entering the cooling system is not fully possible given the limits of the 
inspection, but “oil cooler failure and cylinder head gasket failure are strong possibilities 
given the very large quantity of oil ingress to the cooling system.”
Creation didn’t think the oil leak was its responsibility – the independent report said that 
“There is no suggestion that the current issue with engine was present the point of purchase 
as the vehicle couldn’t have driven 6000 miles plus since the date of purchase, therefore the 
current issues engine has obviously developed after the point of sale”. The report also noted 
that the car had passed an MOT around the date of purchase. 
I accept that Mr B had had the car for seven months when the oil leak occurred, and had 
driven just under 6,500 miles in that time. And the car was not new. But as I explained 
above, when looking at whether the car was of satisfactory quality I need to consider the 
durability of the components. 
The independent report doesn’t suggest what might have led to the possible failure of the oil 
cooler or the cylinder head gasket. Our investigator asked Creation for further information on 
this point, but Creation didn’t respond. In the absence of any additional information, I’ve 
considered the expected lifespan of these parts, and I’ve seen no evidence from either the 
reports, or the age and mileage information about the car, to suggest that they were likely to 
have simply reached the end of the expected lifespan. What occurred seems to have been a 
significant fault and not something a reasonable person would expect in a car of this age and 
mileage. And I’ve not seen anything to make me think that Mr B caused or contributed to the 
fault occurring.
I’ve also kept in mind the earlier problems with the car, which were repaired in March 2021. 
As I noted above, Mr B sent in copies of several email exchanges with the dealer over the 
course of the period between him acquiring the car and the repairs being carried out – the 
first of these was almost immediately after he got the car. In summary, the repairs involved a 
problem with a clock spring, a tyre, a wing mirror, and water ingress into the car. The 
evidence suggests that these faults were present when Mr B acquired the car – again there 
is no evidence to suggest that Mr B caused or contributed to their occurrence.
So taking all of this into account, I don’t consider this car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale and therefore I am upholding Mr B’s complaint.
Mr B said that he wants to reject the vehicle. It’s not clear from the evidence I have that 
repairs will resolve the issues to bring the car to a satisfactory quality, and I think it’s likely 
that they would take longer than Mr B ought reasonably have to wait, especially as he has 
not been able to use the car for some time. As a result I don’t consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Creation to get the repairs carried out, or to expect Mr B to have to 
wait for them.
I’ve also taken into account that repairs had already been carried out on this car, for which I 
consider Creation liable. I’ve concluded that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale, and in those circumstances, the CRA gives Mr B a final right to reject if a repair or 
replacement hasn’t resulted in the car subsequently conforming – that is, it then being of 
satisfactory quality. This doesn’t give Creation a further chance to repair different faults that 
also render the car of car of unsatisfactory quality. So I am satisfied that Mr B is entitled to 
reject the car. This means that Creation should end the agreement and collect the car at no 
cost to Mr B.
I also note that Mr B said he hasn’t been able to use the car since 1 June 2021 because of 
the problems with it – he was advised not to drive the car with the oil leak. (I can see from 
the independent report that jumpstarting the car didn’t result in the engine turning over 
during the inspection, and that the car ‘carried clear indications that it had been immobile for 
some time’.) I think it was reasonable for Mr B to stop using the car at this point, and 
therefore I think it fair that Creation should refund any monthly payments Mr B has made 
under the hire purchase agreement from 1 June 2021 onwards. 
I also think that, although Mr B was able to use the car from 23 October 2020 to 12 March 
2021, there were a number of issues - as I’ve explained above – that meant the car wasn’t 
performing as it should have done, so I think it’s fair to require Creation to refund a 
proportion of the monthly payments Mr B made during this period. I consider a ten percent 
refund of those payments fairly reflects the impaired use.
I’ve set out above the amount Mr B paid for the repairs to the car in March 2021. As I’ve 
concluded that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, I consider it fair 
that Creation should refund the amount Mr B paid out. In addition, Mr B has experienced 
distress and inconvenience as a result of the problems with the car and I consider it fair for 
Creation to pay a further amount of £175 to reflect this.
Putting things right
Creation should:

End the agreement with nothing further to pay.

Collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr B.

Refund Mr B’s deposit/part exchange contribution of £3,817.

Refund all monthly payments Mr B made under the hire purchase agreement from 1 
June 2021 to the date to the date the compensation is paid.

Refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr B made under the hire purchase agreement 
between 23 October 2020 and12 March 2021.

Refund £609.94 in relation to the repairs carried out in March 2021.

Pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date Mr B paid them to the 
date compensation is paid.

Pay £175 for the inconvenience Mr B experienced due to the faults with the car.

Remove any adverse information from Mr B’s credit file (if any has been added).
*if Creation considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr B’s complaint and I direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to compensate Mr B as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman
