DRN-1401352
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about various issues that arose in connection with his direct debit payments 
to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
 
What happened
 Mr F had a catalogue shopping account with Creation. He made his monthly payments by 
direct debit. He says that in mid-2018 he updated his bank details on Creation's website and 
set up a new direct debit, but Creation only has a record of the old direct debit being 
cancelled, and not of a new one being set up. So no more payments were made, and in 
January 2019 he received arrears letters and was charged £30. He phoned Creation and 
explained, and Creation cancelled the charge and asked him to make a payment.
Creation says that since Mr F was unable to make a payment that day, it was agreed that he 
would make a payment later, and the call handler told him that the next payment after that 
would be due on 1 February, and on then on the first of each month after that. That is in 
dispute, and Mr F says he was told that the next payment was due on 1 February. He also 
says he was wrongly told that the last payment had been due in December, before this was 
corrected to 1 January. He complains about these issues, and he also complains that 
Creation didn't tell him about alternative methods of payment it could accept, or that interest 
is charged on late payments. In a later call, he tried to make a payment but the call handler 
didn't know how to take the payment, and so Mr F had to make the payment three days 
later. Creation accepted that was an error, apologised and paid him £50 compensation. But 
instead of paying that directly to him, it off-set it against his outstanding balance. Mr F 
complains that it should have been paid to him, especially (but not just) because if Creation 
had accepted his earlier proposal to settle and close his account, then there would not have 
been an outstanding balance to off-set.
Mr F also complains that he sent Creation an offer of settlement in which he said that if he 
did not receive a reply within 21 days then he would presume Creation accepted his offer. 
Creation did not reply in time, but did not comply with his instructions, and so he complains 
about that too.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Creation was not bound by an 
offer it had not expressly accepted, notwithstanding Mr F's deadline. She thought £50 was 
fair compensation for the failure to take a payment, since this had only delayed payment by 
three days and that short delay had not prejudiced Mr F's position. She said that Creation's 
terms and conditions made it clear that the compensation could be off-set against any 
outstanding balance, and also that interest would be charged on late payments. She said 
there was no evidence of the new direct debit being set up, so she couldn't be satisfied that 
it was Creation's fault that this had not worked. She didn't agree that Creation had had to tell 
Mr F on the phone that alternatives to direct debit were available since he hadn't asked 
about alternatives. The call handler who told him an incorrect payment date in December 
had immediately corrected this to January, and so Mr F had not been misled. Mr F did not 
accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept that Mr F tried to set up a new direct debit, but neither party has any evidence or 
record of this, so it is not possible to tell why it went wrong or whose fault it was -- Mr F's, 
Creation's, or a third party. So I can't say it was because of something Creation did wrong. (It 
does not follow that it must be Mr F's fault; rather, I am specifically not making any finding 
about what happened.)
 As well as being mentioned in the account terms and conditions, the fact that interest is 
charged on late payments was also mentioned on Mr F's monthly statements, and I've seen 
one of them as an example. So I'm satisfied that Creation did enough to tell Mr F that this 
would happen, and that interest was correctly charged. (I think that the real problem here is 
just that Mr F did not expect to be charged any interest because he thought that he was 
making payments by direct debit, but I have already explained why I cannot uphold that part 
of this complaint.)
Although I appreciate that it must be annoying to be given conflicting information by people 
who ought to know the correct facts, I don't think that there were any consequences which 
arose from Creation telling Mr F that a payment had been due in December 2018 when it 
was actually due in January 2019, because it is not in dispute that this error was corrected 
straight away. (In fact, I've listened to the call, and Mr F corrected the call handler and she 
agreed that he was right and apologised. He accepted her apology with good grace at the 
time.) He didn't act on the wrong information to his detriment, and neither did Creation. So 
while that was unfortunate, I don't think it merits compensation.
On the same call, the call handler told Mr F that she would take down his new bank account 
details and set up a new direct debit for him, and that this would collect the payment which 
was due on 1 February, but that he would also have to make a payment manually "on 
Friday" (to cover the arrears). Mr F said he understood. I think that call was clear at the time, 
and so I don't think anyone told him that his next payment was due on 1 February. I note that 
1 February 2019 was also a Friday (in a different week), so it's possible that at some later 
date Mr F forgot what had been agreed and thought that the direct debit was meant to collect 
the late January payment on the earlier Friday. That would not be an unreasonable mistake 
to make (if that's what happened), but I can't say that was Creation's fault.
Creation did pay £50 compensation for another error: for not accepting a payment when Mr 
F wanted to make one, which meant he had to try again three days later (this time 
successfully). I think £50 is fair and is in line with what I would typically award for that kind of 
thing. I think that Creation was entitled to off-set it against the outstanding balance, not just 
because it said so in the terms and conditions but also because that is a general right at 
common law and is standard banking practice. I might have decided that point differently if I 
agreed that the outstanding account balance should already have been zero by the time the 
compensation was paid, but I'm afraid I don't. Creation didn't have to accept Mr F's 
settlement offer, and although it would have been better all round if Creation had specifically 
said it didn't accept that offer within 21 days of receiving it -- which I agree is a reasonable 
timescale -- I won't infer that just by not replying at all, Creation meant to agree to the offer 
and to be bound by it. So the outstanding balance remained at the sum Creation said it was, 
which at the time the compensation was paid was £58.08.
 
My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
