DRN-4039173
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim he made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2014, Mr H entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system (“the system”) 
from a supplier. He paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation, 
which was repayable over ten years. However, Mr H paid off the loan on 23 June 2014.
Mr H wrote to Creation in August 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to 
provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor 
(Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met.
Mr H’s claim explained that he’d purchased the system on the understanding that it would 
pay for itself through the feed-in tariff (“FIT”) payments he’d received for the electricity 
generated and exported to the grid, which would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Creation didn’t respond to the claim and Mr H then contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to complain.
Our adjudicator looked into this, including under section 140 (“s140”) of the Consumer Credit 
Act, since Mr H as a consumer was unlikely to know about this . She concluded that Mr H 
had made his claim too late under the time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. Because 
of this he was too late to make a claim under s.75 and s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
And so, neither the supplier, nor Creation would have any liability if the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or his relationship with Creation was unfair on him. 
Mr H didn’t accept this and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that because the claim was made outside of the 
time limits under the Limitation Act, I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Creation responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision. No response was received 
from the CMC or Mr H by the deadline given in my provisional decision. So, this final 
decision is in line with what I said previously.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint – and I’ll explain why.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation should do anything more with regards to 
Mr H’s s.75 claim. I’ve also considered whether a claim under s.140 was made in time, since 
a misrepresentation could potentially create an unfair relationship between Creation and 
Mr H, and I wouldn’t expect Mr H to be aware he could make such a claim.
There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when reaching my decision, including the 
law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of Mr H’s complaint. In this decision 
I’ll refer to those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
Relevant considerations 
Mr H’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and s.140 and so naturally the appropriate 
parts of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here.
s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can be held responsible for a 
purchase Mr H made using his credit card.
s.140 would allow the courts to consider if the relationship between Creation and Mr H was 
unfair on him. And would take into account the supplier’s actions when selling the system to 
him, since when doing so the supplier would be deemed to have acted as Creation’s agent.
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states:
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation should have treated Mr H fairly when it didn’t uphold his claim. The Limitation 
Act is also important, since Creation would have no liability if the claim was made outside of 
the time limits that sets out.
The Limitation Act 1980
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr H’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 and are 
on the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are:

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute.

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim.
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr H says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
misrepresented to him and if that hadn’t happened, then he wouldn’t have entered the 
contract to purchase the system.
So, Mr H’s financial loss occurred when he agreed to buy the system using a fixed sum loan 
agreement in April 2014. So, he had until April 2020 to make a claim for misrepresentation.
Mr H raised his claim with Creation in August 2022 which is more than six years from when 
the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. So this claim was made outside of 
the time limits in the Limitation Act, and Creation would have no liability for any 
misrepresentation made by the supplier.
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.”
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Mr H’s claim against Creation is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament).
But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s misrepresentation or 
breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made in some circumstances. That is, if 
later than the six-year period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had 
both the knowledge required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a 
claim.
In this case Mr H says he was told the FIT payments would cover the monthly loan 
repayments and as such the system would pay for itself. I think Mr H would’ve had the 
knowledge to bring his claim after he’d received one year’s worth of FIT statements. This 
would’ve allowed him to compare one year’s FIT payments with one year’s loan repayments 
to see if the FIT payments covered the monthly loan repayments. This would’ve been in 
2015, so s.14A would only have allowed Mr H until 2018 to make the claim, and that doesn’t 
extend the six years he had under other sections of the Limitation Act mentioned above.
s.140 limitation period
s.140 would allow the courts to look at the relationship between Creation and Mr H to see if it 
was unfair on him. And the limitation period allows for six years from the end of that 
relationship – in this case the loan agreement, which ended in June 2014. That would mean 
Mr H would have to make a claim under s.140 by June 2020. But he didn’t make his claim 
until 2022. So, Creation would have no liability even if its relationship with Mr H was unfair 
on him (which I haven’t assessed).
Summary
Mr H appears to have made his claim outside of the time allowed under the Limitation Act. 
As such neither the supplier nor Creation would have any liability under s.75 or s.140 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. So, I don’t think Creation needs to do anything further in terms of his 
complaint about the system being misrepresented to him.
Mr H has mentioned some issues with part of the system not working properly. If he thinks 
they ought to be covered by a guarantee or warranty provided by the supplier, which is no 
longer in business, he should contact Creation to see if it can help. In regards to the inverter, 
which was repaired in 2019, if Mr H is unhappy with how that was dealt with he may be able 
to make a complaint about that separately.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
