DRN-2964104
The complaint
Mrs A has complained, on behalf of the estate of her late husband Mr A, that Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected the estate’s claim against it under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to Mr A’s purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in March 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A died in 2020, and his wife is the sole executrix of his estate. She brings this complaint 
on behalf of the estate (and she is represented in turn by a claims management company). 
To keep things simple, I will describe this complaint as her complaint from here on, although 
technically it is really the estate’s complaint and she is not able to bring this complaint in her 
own right. That is because only Mr A had a contract with the installer, and so only he had the 
right to bring a claim for misrepresentation against the installer or, under section 75, against 
Creation. (It’s also not clear that she was also a party to the loan.)
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mrs A £100 compensation.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong, and that he was inconvenienced by this financial loss. And this means that Creation 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs A’s household 
from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and 
she keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs A is paying or has paid, or Mr A has paid, more than they 
should have, then Creation need to reimburse Mrs A accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term (treating her as standing in her 
late husband’s place).
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs A have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs A accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
Since the loan has now been settled, Creation should pay Mrs A the difference between 
what she (or her husband) paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with interest at 8% a year.
I have been told that the loan has been settled by refinancing. Therefore Mrs A should 
supply evidence of the refinance to Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs A (or her husband) paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr or Mrs A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount Mr A would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim under section 75 should have been upheld. 
However, I cannot award Mrs A compensation for that, since (as I’ve said) she is not a 
complainant in her own right.
However, Mr A himself was inconvenienced in his own lifetime, by the additional monthly 
expense he incurred, as a result of the mis-sale of the panels, between 2014 and 2020. If he 
was alive, I would have ordered Creation to pay him £100 for his trouble, and so I will make 
that same award to his estate. Since Mrs A is the sole beneficiary and executrix, I direct that 
Creation must pay the £100 to her directly.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A’s 
representatives, on behalf of the estate of Mr A, to accept or reject my decision before 
3 January 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
