 
 
DRN-4439999 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr D has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 
140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr D has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr D throughout.  
What happened 
In March 2015 Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£8,540 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £13,456.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £112.14. There was a £135 arrangement fee and interest of 
£4,781.80. Mr D paid off the agreement early in August 2020.  
In June 2023 Mr D sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said S cold called him and persuaded him to have a sales meeting at his home. 
He said S made several misrepresentations, the main one being that the system would be 
self-funding. He said S told him the electricity generated by the system would lead to him 
being paid feed in tariff (FIT) payments. He said S told him he’d make significant savings on 
his electricity bills and the benefits would cover the loan payments. Mr D said he wasn’t 
given enough time to go through the paperwork and there was a shortfall between the costs 
and the benefits. Mr D said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and 
several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself 
and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in July 2023 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr D decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in July 2023.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr D the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. He didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so he thought S had 
misrepresented it. He thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr D and 
Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. He 
thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings and 
income over the course of the loan so that Mr D pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. He also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr D. Here the relationship ended in August 
2020. As I’ve set out, Mr D raised a claim, complained and referred his complaint to the 
ombudsman service in 2023, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of 
our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr D says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr D says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr D to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
Mr D supplied a copy of the order confirmation; MCS certificate; a commissioning certificate; 
an invoice and receipt. But none of those forms set out the estimated benefits Mr D would 
likely receive from purchasing the system.  
 
 
Mr D has, however, supplied a copy of a quote/contract that was signed the same day as the 
fixed sum loan agreement. The form sets out the cost of the system but doesn’t include 
details of the interest to be paid on the fixed sum loan. It sets out the type of property and 
type of system to be installed. Importantly, it also has a section to show the estimated 
savings through 50% electricity savings usage; FIT returns; and export tariff returns. But the 
section of the form is blank. It hasn’t been completed. I therefore think there’s some key 
information that should have been supplied to Mr D that was missing. I can’t see there was 
an easy way for him to compare the overall cost of the system to the benefits he’d likely 
receive.  
Mr D has been consistent in saying he had no interest in solar panels before speaking to S. 
He said S told him the system would easily pay for itself and that his motivation for buying it 
was to save money. Like our investigator also pointed out, S’s website from around the time 
Mr D bought the system set out the benefits of receiving a return on the investment better 
than most banks, along with free electricity. I think if the website emphasises the benefits of 
a solar panel system and the return on investment, it’s likely this would have been central to 
the discussions. I’m of the opinion that all of the above information supports Mr D’s 
testimony. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr D said happened. Yet Mr D left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£112.14, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr D’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £1,300 per year. However, I don’t think the 
system would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these 
statements were not true. I think S’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr D’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think S’s 
representative would have known that Mr D’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr D. 
Considering Mr D’s account about what he was told, the documentation and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr D a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr D was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr D went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr D’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr D in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr D and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr D a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr D’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr D received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr D received (or will receive) by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr D will need to supply up to date details, where available, 
of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. Creation 
can use reasonably known calculations to work out the benefits Mr D will likely receive up to 
the end of the loan term.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr D’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr D some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what 
I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr D £100. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr D has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr D’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received (or will 
receive) up until the end of the original loan term* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr D should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr D 
• 
Pay Mr D an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr D is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
