 
 
DRN-3988915 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr J has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr J has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr J throughout. 
 
What happened 
On 24 April 2014, Mr J bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £7,995 and the 
monthly repayments were roughly £105 for 120 months. 
 
Mr J complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation.  
 
Mr J raised his complaint to Creation on 3 September 2021. Creation issued a final 
response letter dated 29 October 2021. Creation considered Mr J had brought his claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr J asked us to review his complaint. Mr J 
brought his complaint to this service on 21 November 2021.  
 
An investigator considered Mr J’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr J and 
Creation.  
On 27 February 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr J keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr J had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mr J accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further 
submissions had it wished to. 
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr J’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr J’s s.75 claim 
on 29 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr J brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 November 2021. 
So, his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr J. Here the relationship 
ended when the loan was paid off on 24 February 2017. Mr J raised his complaint to 
Creation on 3 September 2021, so the complaint has been brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
J.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
 
 
Mr J has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make.  
Mr J has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided from the time Mr J signed the credit agreement to 
see if there was anything contained within them that made it clear to Mr J that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. The loan agreement, signed by Mr J on 24 April 
2014, sets out Mr J’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of 
that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr J’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr J to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr J would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr J said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mr J left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £105, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mr J’s account of what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. In 
saying that I have noted that Mr J told us that at the time of the sale he and his wife were 
over state retirement age. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances 
he’s said he received from M.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr J’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,261 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr J’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that. And I 
have noted that the system was not registered for FIT payments by M. So, it is not 
surprising that the evidence suggests that the solar panel system failed to generate 
anything close to the sort of income required to meet Mr J’s loan repayments. 
 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr J’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there 
are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr J’s system would not produce 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to 
Mr J. 
 
Considering Mr J’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was shown 
at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr J a false and misleading impression of the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr J’s account to be plausible and 
convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr J was expected to receive by 
 
 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr J went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr J’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr J in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr J and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr J’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mr J and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr J a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr J’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr J received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider that Mr J received no income by way of FIT 
payments but Creation should consider any savings made through energy savings. Mr J 
may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation 
can and should use assumptions when information is not available.  
 
Mr J told us that the loan with creation was paid off on 24 February 2017. Whilst it was 
replaced by a loan with another company that should not affect the calculation of redress 
as that was at Mr J’s direction.   
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr J made towards the loan up until he repaid 
it – A 
• 
Use Mr J’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and assumed 
benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr J should have repaid each month towards the 
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he 
 
 
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual 
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of 
settlement – C 
• 
Use his electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and assumed 
benefits he received between the loan being paid off and the end of the original 
loan term – D 
• 
Deduct D from the amount Mr J paid off the loan – E 
• 
Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr J paid off the loan until 
the date of settlement – F 
• 
Subject to receiving the available up to date electricity bills and 
meter readings, Creation should pay Mr J C + F 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr J 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr J’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
