DRN-4102874
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with Creation Consumer Finance
Ltd, who I’ll call “Creation”.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M and I have every sympathy for his position, but I’m afraid I don’t
think I have sufficient evidence this agreement was misrepresented to him. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes
out a credit agreement.
So, If Mr M was given a false statement of fact (or law) by the broker and if that false
statement was a significant reason why he entered into the agreement, I may think the
agreement had been misrepresented to him and that Creation needed to put things right.
Mr M says he always intended to pay for the car in full and was persuaded by the broker to
buy it now, rather than in a couple of weeks, as they told him he could subsequently pay off
the finance agreement and he’d only be responsible for the interest accrued in the
meantime.
It's clear he was intending to pay off the agreement in full, as after he entered into the
finance agreement he sold his other car and contacted Creation to pay off the agreement.
But in order for me to be satisfied the finance agreement was misrepresented, I would need
to be persuaded there was evidence Mr M was told what he testifies he was told and hadn’t
merely misinterpreted the advice. The broker hasn’t accepted that they gave Mr M that
advice. So, the two parties’ testimonies are at odds with each other. However, the finance
documentation clearly sets out Mr M’s termination rights. I think it’s reasonable to expect
Mr M to have read those documents and, on balance, I think the evidence I have suggests
he should have been aware there would be early settlement fees applied if he ended the
agreement outside of the 14 day cooling off window.
I’m not therefore persuaded the agreement was misrepresented to Mr M and I’m not
expecting to tell Creation to take any further action.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation didn’t respond to my provisional decision, but Mr M did. He said:
“…you can clearly see that I intended to pay the money as I paid off in full what I believed 
was owed. If I thought any different I would have not entered into the agreement with the 
dealership or I would have ensured it was paid within 14 days. Why would I delay by 1 week 
just to pay the extra interest?” and “Nowhere does it say that after 14 days I would be liable 
to pay the full amount of the interest, it just says about the cooling off period, this is not clear 
or precise and is miss-leading”.
Mr M added “…why has creation taken and held my money and not shown any monthly 
payments against the loan? You can see on an email I have sent them asking them to 
allocate the money against my monthly instalments to which they have not done.
This has now massively and negatively affected my credit score, potentially causing me 
credit issues for the future.” And “they have held onto around £26,000 of my money for 
approx. 1 year now without allocating against any payments. I would like to ask them and 
yourself how I can charge them interest for holding onto this money without resolve?”
He said he was disappointed in this outcome as …it had caused him “stress and anxiety” 
and had damaged his credit score.
I agree that it seems Mr M was always intending to pay off his agreement but as I explained 
in my provisional decision, I would need to be persuaded there was evidence he was given a 
false statement of fact and hadn’t merely misinterpreted the dealer’s advice. And I’ve not 
been provided with sufficient information to persuade me of that.
I don’t agree that payment required to settle the agreement after the cooling off period is 
unclear. It’s set out in section 10 of the terms and conditions.
I understand Mr M’s concerns if the payment he’s made hasn’t been allocated at all to his 
account, but this Service isn’t able to consider a complaint until the business has considered 
it and I can’t see Mr M has referred that aspect of his complaint to Creation yet. He’ll need to 
do that first but if the complaint isn’t resolved to his satisfaction he may then be able to refer 
it to this Service.
And, whilst I understand the stress and anxiety that Mr M has clearly experienced here, I 
don’t think it would be fair for me to decide there was sufficient evidence the agreement was 
misrepresented to him, or that Creation therefore needed to put things right.
I’ve not therefore been provided with information that has led me to change my provisional 
decision and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
