 
 
DRN-5734928 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs D has complained there were delays in Creation Consumer Finance Ltd processing her 
loan application. This meant she had to reapply, and her application was then declined. 
What happened 
Mrs D applied for a loan with Creation, and indications were it would be accepted. However, 
Creation asked for further information, and then there were issues accessing the 
documentation to sign - leading to the application ‘timing out’. Mrs D was told she’d need to 
reapply, but when she did, her application was declined. 
 
Creation apologised, and offered Mrs D £200 compensation. It also said it would remove the 
credit searches from her credit file. 
 
Our investigator thought this was fair. Mrs D disagreed, and also explained that Creation 
didn’t update her credit report in a timely manner, which affected her ability to apply for 
further credit. 
 
The complaint’s now been passed to me. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see the matter has understandably been very frustrating for Mrs D. It’s clear that there 
were delays, which weren’t her fault, that led to the loan ‘timing out’. But I don’t think it would 
be right to now require Creation to give Mrs D this loan (or a loan on the same terms). This is 
because, when she did reapply, she didn’t meet the criteria. I think it would be wrong for a 
loan to be given in such circumstances. This is particularly so if the concern was 
affordability, as it could cause problems for the future. 
 
So, I think £200 is fair compensation, to address the disappointment and loss of expectation 
suffered. I can also see that Creation removed the searches from Mrs D’s credit file, which I 
agree was fair. There were delays with this, but overall, I think the £200 compensation is fair 
to also address this. I’m aware Creation didn’t include the credit file issue in calculating the 
£200, but I’m satisfied it’s in line with what I’d have awarded. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, it’s my final decision that the £200 offered by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd is fair. I leave it to Mrs D to decide whether to accept this, if she 
hasn’t already. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2025. 
  
 
Elspeth Wood 
Ombudsman 
 
