DRN-3516545
The complaint
Mr T complains that he wasn’t provided with any information when he entered into an 
agreement with creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T purchased a laptop from a merchant and entered into a credit 
agreement with Creation. Mr T chose the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option, which meant 
that if he paid for the laptop in full by 20 September 2020, he wouldn’t have to pay any 
interest.
Mr T has said that he tried several times to contact the merchant to find out how to make 
payments because he hadn’t been provided with any paperwork. In October 2020 Mr T 
noticed an unexpected direct debit on his account, so he contacted the merchant again and 
his complaint was directed to Creation.
In response, Creation said that online statements had been made available to Mr T to 
remind him of the BNPL period. It said that because it hadn’t received payment in full by the 
required date, interest became applicable and a direct debit was initiated to collect monthly 
repayments from Mr T’s bank account.
Mr T was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she wasn’t satisfied that that the emails sent 
by Creation had been successfully sent, because the email address held by Creation was 
wrong.  The investigator said that Creation had failed to follow its own procedure for 
undelivered emails. She said she thought that Mr T would’ve paid I full if he’d been 
contacted before the end of the BNPL period and said Creation should refund the interest 
applied to the account ad allow Mr T to pay the remaining balance in full.
Creation didn’t agree. It said that Mr T had provided his email address during the application 
process and that he should’ve noticed if it was incorrect. Creation also said that because its 
statement reminder emails were automatically generated, it wouldn’t have received a 
notification if the email was undelivered.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the records held by Creation. I can see that when Mr T applied for the credit 
agreement his email address was recorded and it was noted that his preferred method of 
contact was email.
I can also see that Creation sent two emails to Mr T before the BNPL period ended. The 
emails contained a link to Mr T’s online account which (if activated) would have allowed him 
to view his statement.
Mr T has said that the email address used by Creation was incorrect. He believes that the 
salesperson wrote it down incorrectly. Mr T said that he never received any emails from 
Creation.
This service asked Creation whether it had received notification that the emails sent to Mr T 
were undelivered and what its procedure was in those circumstances.
Creation said that if an email was returned undelivered, its procedure was to send a letter or 
make a telephone call.
This service sent an email to the email address used by Creation for Mr T and it was 
returned as undelivered.
Although Creation has said that it couldn’t see from its records that any of the emails sent to 
Mr T had been returned as undelivered, I think it’s likely that all of the emails were returned 
as undelivered. I can’t see that Creation tried to write to Mr T or contact him by telephone, in 
line with its own procedure.
I’ve taken account of what Creation has said about Mr T being responsible for checking that 
the information on his application was correct. I cant be certain of whether the salesperson 
owed the screen to Mr T throughout the application. If Mr T had seen that his email address 
had been recorded incorrectly, I think he would’ve brought this to the attention of the 
salesperson at the time.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m not satisfied that the emails from Creation were successfully 
sent to Mr T. I think it’s likely that Mr T would’ve paid in full before the end of the BNPL 
period if he had received the emails and accessed his statements. I’ve seen evidence that 
Mr T had sufficient funds to pay in full as at September 2020. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should remove all interest from Mr T’s account and allow him to 
pay the outstanding balance in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
