DRN-3796539
The complaint
Ms F complains that a suite supplied with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s also unhappy about the delay in the suite being delivered 
and says she never received a copy of the finance agreement.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms F ordered a suite from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation.
Ms F says there was an issue with the agreement before she signed it and it was amended 
but she’s never received a copy.
The suite was due to be delivered in March 2020. Delivery was delayed initially due to the 
suite being sent to the wrong depot and subsequently due to the national lockdown. Ms F 
finally received the suite in May 2020.
Ms F discovered some issues with the suite when it was delivered and raised a complaint 
with Creation. Ms F says she never received a response to her complaint despite chasing 
several times.
Creation says it wrote to Ms F several times trying to arrange an inspection of the suite but 
never received a response.
Ms F brought her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that I was satisfied that Ms F had signed the 
agreement electronically but that she should be provided with a hard copy for her records.
In relation to the quality of the goods I said I was satisfied that Creation had tried to contact 
Ms f and that it wasn’t clear why she hadn’t received the letters. I said it was clear that an 
inspection needed to take place to establish whether there was something wrong with the 
goods and said Creation should contact Ms F to arrange this.
In relation to the delay, I said that although there had been some delay caused by the 
retailer sending the suite to the wrong depot, the main cause of the delay was the national 
lockdown which wasn’t something I could fairly hold Creation responsible for. I did say, 
however, that I thought there had been some delay in the handling of Ms F’s complaint for 
which Creation was responsible and for which it should pay compensation.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence of arguments they wished to raise.
Both parties responded and said they accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I see no reasons 
to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Send Ms F a copy of the finance agreement
Contact Ms F to arrange an inspection of the suite
Pay compensation of £100 to Ms F for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
