 
 
DRN-5315839 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss I has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
 
What happened 
In January 2024, Miss I entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with CCF to 
fund the purchase of a sofa suite from supplier that I’ll call “S”. The cash 
price was around £1,900 and Miss I was due to pay back the agreement with monthly 
payments of around £50. The term of the loan was around 3 years.  
 
The sofa suite was delivered in March 2024, and on receipt of the satisfaction note, CCF 
collected the first direct debit payment in April 2024. In late June 2024, Miss I contacted S  
seeking to return the sofa suite claiming it was defective. She said the sofas had become flat 
within weeks of delivery and she requested a refund.  
 
S originally asked for photos of the sofa suite, and on review of this, didn’t feel that the suite 
was defective. It later sent a technician to check if the sofa suite was defective or had a 
manufacturing fault. On examining the sofa suite, S’s technician said the sofas were not 
defective and didn’t have a manufacturing fault. But they had a fibre filling which was soft, 
and it needed care (regular fluffing), to stop them from going flat again. The technician 
provided advice to Miss I on how to properly care for the sofa suite.  
   
Miss I remained unhappy as she had recently had a baby and felt physically unable to 
continue to care for the sofas. She said she hadn’t been advised that this type of sofa 
required this level of care – and she felt the sofas were substandard and she wanted to 
return them. S offered to replace the fibre filling with a harder filling but said Miss I would 
have to pay for that. They said she had purchased a fibre filling sofa suite and had received 
what she paid for. Miss I then sought to make a claim against her finance provider - CCF.  
 
CCF considered the claim as a potential breach of contract under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). CCF declined her claim as it said the product was not 
faulty or defective and Miss I was outside of the 30-day period to return the sofa suite. It 
didn’t feel there had been a breach of contract that it was now liable to remedy.  
 
Still unhappy, Miss I referred the complaint to our service. Miss I explained she had given 
birth shortly before accepting delivery of the sofa suite and was recovering from surgery so 
didn’t have the capacity to return the sofa suite within the 30 day return period.  
 
Our investigator looked into things and didn’t think CCF needed to do any more than S had 
already offered. He said that there was no evidence there had been a breach of contract 
because there was no evidence the sofa suite was defective. He added that there had also 
been no misrepresentation about the sofa suite. He also said Miss I had purchased the suite 
online, and there was information available online explaining this type of filling was soft and 
required regular fluffing. He said if Miss I remained unhappy with the sofas, she could ask S 
to replace the filling as it had offered, but she’d have to pay for it.  
 
 
 
Miss I didn’t agree. She said she placed her order over the phone and the advisor she spoke 
to knew she was expecting and ought to have made it clear that the sofa suite required 
regular aftercare and wasn’t suitable for a family. Given her physical and medical needs, she 
was unable to care for the sofa suite in the way this type of sofa requires so wasn’t suitable 
for her. As she hadn’t purchased the suite in store, she didn’t have any pre-sale meetings to 
discuss the sofa suite and didn’t receive any advice as to the characteristics of the sofas. 
She had seen the sofas online, and then rang S to order them.  
 
Our investigator explained that the problems Miss I is complaining about are about the 
characteristics of the sofa filling and information was available online and Miss I could have 
done her own research about this type of sofa before purchasing it. He reiterated that S had 
made no misrepresentations about it, and the sofa suite wasn’t defective. But as things 
weren’t resolved the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I’d like to reassure Miss I, that I have considered all her concerns carefully, but I will 
only be dealing with the most salient parts of her complaint in this decision as I’m required to 
decide matters quickly and with minimum formality. I would add that I’m sorry to hear that 
Miss I is unhappy with the sofa suite and the impact it has had on her given her vulnerable 
health position. I’d like to make it clear that I fully believe her testimony and accept that 
based on her physical health, caring for the sofas would be a challenge. 
 
But it may be helpful to explain that I need to consider whether CCF – as a provider of 
financial services – has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Miss I’s claim. And 
it’s important to note CCF isn’t the supplier. S.75 is a statutory protection that enables Miss I 
to make a ‘like claim’ against CCF for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier 
paid using a fixed sum loan for the provision of goods or services.  
 
There are certain conditions that need to be met for s.75 to apply. From what I’ve seen, 
those conditions have been met and CCF has also agreed that s.75 applies.  
 
I’ve considered if there is persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by S that means CCF should have offered something different when handling Miss I’s claim. 
But I want to explain from the outset that I can only consider Miss I’s complaint on that 
narrow basis – that is, whether it was fair and reasonable for CCF to respond to her claim in 
the way that it did. 
 
In order for me to uphold Miss I’s s.75 claim, I’d have to be satisfied that S breached a term 
of the contract – or the sofa suite was misrepresented to her – and either one of those 
issues caused her to suffer loss.  
 
Misrepresentation  
 
Firstly, I’ve considered if the sofa suite has been misrepresented to Miss I in any way. For 
the purpose of this decision, I’ve used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss. 
 
Miss I has said S should have informed her about the nature of the fibre filling when she 
placed her order on the phone and ought to have told her it wasn’t suitable for a family. I’m 
afraid I don’t agree. S isn’t obligated to assess Miss I’s wider circumstances in the way she 
 
 
believes to ensure that the product is suitable for her and her family voluntarily. Miss I saw 
the sofas online and then sought to order them – and it seems S simply processed the order 
which isn’t unusual. It doesn’t seem to me that she asked for any advice or further details 
about them and was then misled or was given any misleading information about them – 
which is what is required to make a claim for misrepresentation.   
 
As explained by our investigator, the information about the nature of the type of sofa suite 
Miss I bought is available on S’s website – and the information is clear. It also sets out the 
other types of fillings available – and it’s up to consumers to decide what type of sofa they 
want or seek advice from S if required. Miss I wasn’t subsequently mis-led by S and hasn’t 
been provided with any incorrect or untrue information when she eventually placed her order 
– which is what is required to make a successful claim. So, as explained by our investigator, 
I don’t think a misrepresentation claim exists here.  
 
Breach of contract – express terms  
 
In order for me to uphold Miss I’s s.75 claim for breach of contract, I’d have to be satisfied 
that S breached a term of the contract – and that caused Miss I to suffer loss. I’ve initially 
looked at whether there has been an express breach of the contract that S had with Miss I.  
 
Miss I bought a sofa suite with a fibre filling and that is what she received - so I don’t think 
any express terms have been breached in this case.  
 
Breach of contract- implied terms  
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that the goods must be of satisfactory quality, aspects of which 
include goods being durable and free from minor defects. The CRA also sets out what 
remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services contract 
are not met. 
 
So, I’ve gone on to consider whether there has been a breach of an implied term in the 
contract. I understand Miss I said the sofas became flat within weeks of delivery and she’s 
unable to complete the aftercare requirements to stop the sofa suite from becoming flat due 
to her physical health, so this suite is not suitable for her or her family.  
 
But a sofa suite not matching Miss I’s preferences is not enough to show the sofas are not of 
satisfactory quality. These sofas being soft and, requiring a level of aftercare, is a 
characteristic of this type of filling and is made clear on S’s website. This doesn’t mean that 
the sofa suite is not of satisfactory quality or that it is defective – it just doesn’t suit Miss I’s 
needs and preferences. Different consumers want and need different things from their sofas, 
and it is up to each consumer to pick the type of sofa they need and want – or return them 
within the relevant cooling off periods. They can also ask S for advice if required.  
 
I appreciate the difficult circumstances that Miss I was going through when she took delivery 
of the sofa suite and why she didn’t return them within the 30-day return period – but this 
doesn’t mean S did anything wrong that CCF would now be responsible for. And as 
explained, I can only assess her complaint, on that narrow basis – whether there is a breach 
of contract that S made that CCF would now be responsible for.  
 
It seems to me that Miss I bought sofas that potentially weren’t right for her due to her 
vulnerable physical position around the time of delivery and for the same reasons, she didn’t 
return them in time. Although I understand how that happened, unfortunately, this doesn’t 
mean that there has been a breach of contract that CCF would now be responsible to rectify. 
And CCF is only liable to offer Miss I a remedy in instances where there has been a breach 
 
 
of contract. I understand customers may wish for businesses such as S or CCF to perhaps 
offer gestures of goodwill in the interests of good customer service, especially when 
consumers are vulnerable. But CCF isn’t obligated to do so, and this doesn’t give rise to a 
successful s.75 claim.  So, while I sympathise with Miss I’s position, I’ve not seen enough to 
determine the goods provided were not of satisfactory quality and therefore I don’t think CCF 
is obligated to offer a remedy.  
 
Summary  
 
Overall, I don’t think there’s sufficient evidence that there’s been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. So, I don’t think CCF acted unfairly for declining her claim. If Miss I feels 
strongly that these sofas do not meet her needs, as explained by our investigator, she can 
look into S’s offer to replace the filling with a type of filling that does match her preferences, 
but I’m afraid she’d have to incur the costs of doing so. While I am sorry to hear Miss I is 
unhappy, with s.75 in mind, I don’t find there are grounds to direct CCF to refund her the full 
cost of the sofa suite or to cover the costs of replacing the filling.  
 
I should, however, point out Miss I doesn’t have to accept this decision. She’s also free to 
pursue the complaint by more formal means such as through the courts. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2025. 
  
 
Asma Begum 
Ombudsman 
 
