DRN-3307472
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the quality of a sofa he bought using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S bought a leather sofa from a supplier I’ll call H. He entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for it. The sofa was delivered at the end of 
September 2019. Shortly after this, Mr S noticed a large area of leather peeling from the 
sofa. He told H about this. It arranged for the sofa to be inspected by a company I’ll call C.
 
C inspected the sofa and sent a report to H. The report identified a defective finish on the 
leather and stated the manufacturer was liable for this. A few days later C told Mr S new 
parts were required to fix the issue, and these could take up to 12 weeks to arrive. This was 
mid-January 2020.
 
But before the sofa could be fixed, the UK went into covid-19 lockdown. Not long after this, H 
went into administration. Due to personal circumstances, Mr S wasn’t able to pursue the 
matter further until the following year. In May 2021 he contacted Creation about the faulty 
sofa. It dealt with this as a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
 
Creation said that as the sofa was now more than six months old, Mr S needed to provide a 
report to show there was a manufacturing fault. He replied immediately enclosing a copy of 
C’s letter showing parts were ordered in January 2020. Creation simply repeated its stance 
that it needed an inspection confirming the problem.
 
Mr S wasn’t happy with this. He brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into this issue. In brief, she thought that, as the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality, Creation 
should: cancel Mr S’ agreement; collect the sofa; clear the agreement from Mr S’ credit file; 
and, give him a refund of all the payments he’d made including the deposit he’d paid.
 
Mr S accepted our investigator’s view. Creation didn’t. Its position was that it had only 
recently seen a copy of the inspection report carried out by C and this showed that a repair 
to the sofa was the correct option. Our investigator didn’t agree but Creation maintained this 
stance. So, this case was passed to me to review.
 
To try and resolve things informally, our investigator shared my initial thoughts with Creation. 
Briefly, I explained that I thought that, given the time that had passed, it was no longer 
reasonable for a repair to be carried out. Taking this into account, I explained I was minded 
to uphold this complaint. I set out what Creation needed to do to put things right which was 
broadly similar to the redress our investigator set out in her view. 
I asked Creation if it would now consider settling this complaint in the way I’d suggested. It 
didn’t agree. Briefly, Creation said the delay had been caused by the consumer not providing 
an up to date report when asked. As no agreement has been reached, I’ve moved to issue a 
formal decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. I’ll explain why. But first, I’m aware 
that I’ve summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what I 
think the key issue is here: Should Creation give Mr S a full refund?
 
If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, I haven’t ignored it. I’ve not commented on every 
individual detail or argument, only those that I’m satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
When reaching my decision, I’m required take into account relevant law. Here, this includes 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75), and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 
2015). S75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, as the provider of the finance used to pay 
for the sofa, Mr S has a like claim against Creation for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, H. I’m satisfied those circumstances apply here.
 
The CRA 2015 implied a term into Mr S’s contract with H that, among other things, the sofa 
would be of satisfactory quality. Mr S has given us a copy of a letter from C from January 
2020 which clearly shows there was a problem with the sofa and that replacement parts 
were needed. This is dated less than four months from when the sofa was supplied. So, I’m 
satisfied this demonstrates it wasn’t of satisfactory quality. I’ve also seen the report from C 
from the same time which shows the problem was due to a manufacturing fault.
 
In these circumstances, as more than 30 days had passed since delivery, the CRA 2015 
gives Mr S the right to ask for the goods to be repaired or replaced. I can see the repair 
wasn’t able to be carried out at the time due to covid-19 and then H going into 
administration. But Mr S also wasn’t in a position to pursue this until May 2021. When he did, 
I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Creation to have arranged the repair at this 
point. But it didn’t.
 
Instead, when Mr S asked it to arrange the repair, Creation told him that, as the sofa was 
more than six months old, the burden of proof was on him to demonstrate the goods weren’t 
of satisfactory quality. I don’t agree. Where goods don’t conform to contract - in this case 
because they weren’t of satisfactory quality – any time within six months of delivery, it must 
be taken that they didn’t conform on that said delivery date.
 
I can see Mr S replied within hours of Creation’s request for him to get a report. He supplied 
a copy of the letter from C. As above, I’m satisfied this clearly showed there was a problem 
with the sofa that needed fixing and that this problem had presented itself within six months 
of the sofa’s delivery. As I’ve said, this means it must be taken that the sofa didn’t conform to 
contract when it was delivered. So, I’m satisfied the onus was on Creation to show the sofa 
conformed to contract, not on Mr S to show it didn’t 
Given this, if Creation wanted any more details around the exact nature of the repair and the 
parts that were needed, I’m satisfied it would have been fair and reasonable for it to clarify 
this directly with C, especially as H had gone into administration. If Creation had got in touch 
with C, as we did, the situation could have been clarified fairly quickly. 
But it kept asking Mr S to get a report which, as above, I’m satisfied Mr S didn’t need to 
provide. Instead, I’m satisfied Creation should have done more at this point to arrange a 
repair. But it didn’t. 
As above, the CRA 2015 gives Mr S the right here to ask for his sofa to be repaired or 
replaced. In general terms, this must be done within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. Further, Mr S has a final right to reject the sofa if 
he’s asked for a repair and this hasn’t been carried out within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience.
 
I’ve borne in mind that Mr S didn’t get in touch with Creation till May 2021, but even when he 
did, it hasn’t arranged a repair within a reasonable time. It follows, I don’t think Creation has 
handled Mr S’s S75 claim in a fair and reasonable way. So, I think he should now be allowed 
to exercise his final right to reject the sofa and get a full refund.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Creation should:

Arrange collection of the sofa at no cost to Mr S* 

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay

Clear the agreement from Mr S’s credit file

Refund Mr S’s deposit of £268.15 together with 8% annual simple interest from the 
date of that payment to the date of settlement

Refund all the loan repayments Mr S has made together with 8% annual simple 
interest calculated from the date of each payment to the date of settlement
If Creation thinks it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
simple interest outlined above, it should tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
* I’m aware that Creation isn’t always able to facilitate a sofa’s collection. Previously, it has 
suggested that a consumer arranges for their local council to collect the sofa and Creation 
will cover the cost of this. I can see that Mr S’s local council charges around £37.50 for the 
collection of this type of item. If Creation isn’t able to arrange the collection of the sofa it 
should pay Mr S £37.50 so he can arrange this instead.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take the action I’ve set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman
