DRN-4506371
The complaint
Ms K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to act responsibly or properly 
assess affordability when deciding whether to lend to her. She also believes she was 
scammed by the provider of the goods associated with the loan.
Background to the complaint
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the events leading up to this complaint 
and how I was minded to say matters were best resolved. I’ve reproduced my provisional 
decision here, which forms part of this final decision.
“My Provisional Decision
What happened
In December 2016 Creation approved a loan application from Ms K. The loan was arranged 
through a third party “E”. The loan funds – just under £5,000 – were paid directly to E, who 
provided Ms K with a ‘Magic Box’ product to improve the efficiency of her central heating. 
The loan repayment term was 10 years, with a monthly repayment of £69.01, giving a total 
amount payable of £8,531.20.
Ms K subsequently complained to Creation (and us) about its decision to approve the 
finance, as well as the way in which E sold the Magic Box product. She felt she’d been 
scammed by E and that Creation hadn’t properly considered her financial position when 
approving the loan.
Creation says it undertook an affordability assessment based on information submitted in 
Ms K’s application, her stated income and her existing credit commitments, which it obtained 
from a credit bureau check. It felt this was enough to ensure the borrowing was affordable.
Our investigator was satisfied with Creation’s explanation of the steps it took to assess Ms 
K’s creditworthiness. The investigator also felt she couldn’t uphold a claim in 
misrepresentation on E’s part, noting the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”). She considered what E had said was 
supported by information she found on the Magic Box manufacturer’s website, and that E 
hadn’t said anything incorrect about the condition of Ms K’s radiators.
Ms K didn’t accept the investigator’s conclusions. She sent further information about her 
financial position at the time of taking out the loan, as well as querying inaccuracies in the 
information submitted to Creation. Our investigator felt this was a matter between Ms K and 
E, who ceased trading in 2019. She wasn’t persuaded to reach a different outcome, and so 
the matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
Creation’s assessment of Ms K’s creditworthiness
The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) Handbook makes provisions in relation to 
responsible lending activity. At the material time, section 5 of the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (“CONC”) set out, among other things, the requirement for a lender to undertake 
an assessment of a customer’s creditworthiness. This said that a creditworthiness 
assessment must be based on sufficient information obtained from the customer, where 
appropriate, and a credit reference agency, where necessary.
CONC 5.2 also said that a creditworthiness assessment must consider the customer’s ability 
to make payments under the credit agreement, as well as the potential for the commitments 
under the agreement to adversely impact the customer’s financial situation. The scope of the 
assessment should be based on sufficient information.
Additional guidance at CONC 5.2.3G said that the extent and scope in a given case should 
be dependent on and proportionate to a range of factors. Those factors included (but weren’t 
limited to) the type, amount and cost of the credit, the customer’s financial position and credit 
history, and their existing financial commitments including repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements, rent payments, council tax, utilities and other major outgoings 
known to the lender.
Other relevant CONC guidance applicable at the material time said:
“CONC 5.3.1G
(1) In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC5.2.2R(1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customer's 
ability to repay the credit
(2) The creditworthiness assessment…should include the firm taking reasonable 
steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments under a regulated credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer incurring financial 
difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences...”
…(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness 
assessment or its assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):…
…(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer”
I’ve noted the basis of Creation’s assessment and the method it says it used for establishing 
Ms K’s disposable income. I don’t think it’s necessary to set out that methodology here; 
suffice to say that Creation hasn’t sought to suggest that in establishing Ms K’s ability to 
meet the payments under the credit agreement it took into account anything other than the 
statement of her income and her known existing credit commitments, being £15.
That resulted in the questionable conclusion that Ms K’s monthly outgoings including the 
proposed finance totalled £84 and left her with disposable income of £1,350. I appreciate 
that a proportionate creditworthiness assessment did not require Creation to take into 
account all the factors listed in CONC 5.2.3G. But I don’t think I could properly conclude that 
a reasonable assessment would have little to no regard for asking about the sort of regular 
expenditure most of us have, such as utilities, council tax, and groceries.
I note Creation also used the income figure supplied without verification. Ms K has 
questioned this amount, saying it wasn’t an accurate reflection of her income. She has 
supplied account statements that show her net income was around £1,070 per month, 
almost £400 lower than the figure Creation used.
While I appreciate Creation’s comments around the accuracy of the information provided to 
it, in my view the other inaccuracies in the application information lend credence to Ms K’s 
assertion that it was E rather than her that completed the application. I might have expected 
Creation to recognise the risk of relying solely on the stated information, given the way 
CONC 5.3.1(4)(b) was worded.
Based on what I’ve seen, the individual circumstances of this case ought to have suggested 
to Creation that a proportionate assessment would involve more enquiry about how Ms K 
was managing her finances in order to ensure the lending was affordable and sustainable. I 
therefore intend to conclude that Creation hasn’t done enough to demonstrate that it 
undertook a suitable assessment of Ms K’s creditworthiness.
I don’t think there’s anything to suggest from Ms K’s account statements that she wasn’t in 
control of her financial situation. The way she was dealing with her income and expenditure 
was broadly sustainable. Ms K wasn’t borrowing money in order to meet repayments for 
existing debt, and her overdrawn position wasn’t getting worse. Nevertheless, she was 
regularly using her overdraft facility to maintain her monthly expenditure, which might have 
suggested to Creation that the additional cost of the ten-year loan could cause Ms K 
financial difficulty or have significant adverse consequences for her.
Against that, I have to bear in mind that Ms K did meet the monthly payments between loan 
inception and the point at which she cancelled her direct debit, which appears to have been 
shortly after she sold her property. While I accept that as a result Ms K no longer has the 
benefit of the Magic Box, I don’t think that provides good reason to say that Creation should 
not have provided the loan.
But in the circumstances, I consider Creation could – and should – have done better in 
assessing Ms K’s application, and that its actions put additional pressure on Ms K’s limited 
finances. It follows that I’m inclined to require Creation to take steps to recognise its 
responsibility in this respect.
Creation’s responsibility for E’s actions
Our investigator referenced the provisions of section 75 in her assessment. I must also 
recognise that section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 56”) is also relevant, in 
that it has the effect of making E the agent of Creation in respect of any negotiations 
between E and Ms K relating to the transaction financed by the credit agreement. For the 
purposes of section 56, negotiations include any representations made by E to Ms K and 
any other dealings between them.
It's not quite correct, then, to say that Creation’s potential liability towards Ms K extends only 
to whether she has a claim against E for misrepresentation. Indeed, she may have such a 
claim; I’m not persuaded that information on the Magic Box manufacturer’s website means 
that E made no representation or assertion in the course of the sale that could not 
subsequently be shown to be false. But I must also acknowledge that Ms K’s recollection of 
what E told her about the Magic Box system might not be enough to support such a claim.
What isn’t in doubt, however, is that while Ms K raised with Creation the question of whether 
she’d been the victim of a scam, Creation’s response to her complaint didn’t address this 
aspect. Bearing this in mind, I don’t consider Creation has had due regard for its 
responsibilities under section 56 for the actions of its agent E, either in the way it presented 
the Magic Box as the solution to Ms K’s heating problem or in the way it dealt with the 
application. Again, I think that’s a shortcoming on Creation’s part that has caused Ms K 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience, which should be recognised when deciding how 
best to resolve Ms K’s complaint.
Putting things right
I appreciate Ms K had her reasons for cancelling her direct debit. However, I don’t think I can 
say that makes it reasonable to treat her payments as not being due, or that I can rightly 
direct Creation to remove any missed payment information it recorded on Ms K’s credit file 
as a result.
However, I am minded to say that Creation’s handling of the loan application and its failure 
to engage with Ms K’s concerns over its agent’s actions should be reflected by way of 
compensation. There’s no hard and fast rule as to what’s appropriate in this respect. Having 
carefully considered all that’s happened, I think a fair way to reflect this would be for 
Creation to reduce the remaining balance on Ms K’s loan by £750.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my intended conclusions.
Response to my provisional findings
Creation accepted my intended conclusions and had no further comments to make.
Ms K noted the proposed balance reduction, but felt this was merely a drop in the ocean for 
Creation. She thought it was wrong that I had sided with the lender when I was supposed to 
be an advocate for the consumer’s side.
In addition, Ms K reiterated the inaccuracies in the information Creation had taken into 
consideration when approving the finance. And she emphasised that she’d incurred 
overdraft costs in sustaining the loan repayments.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear, in light of Ms K’s comment, that we aren’t set up as a consumer 
champion, and we don’t act for either party to a dispute. Rather, we take an independent 
view on the complaints referred to us, and set out how we think matters are best resolved.
I’ve considered what Ms K said in response to my provisional decision, and while I 
appreciate her strength of feeling, she hasn’t said anything new or that I didn’t take into 
account in my provisional decision.
I noted in my provisional conclusions the extent to which Ms K was making use of her 
overdraft and the potential for detriment to her financial position that arose from its decision 
to approve the lending. That was part of the reason for the balance reduction I proposed; if 
there had been no impact on Ms K, I wouldn’t have found it necessary to make such an 
award.
Our awards aren’t intended as a fine or to punish a firm, and they aren’t based on the size of 
the firm or its financial position. Rather, they’re intended to reflect what we consider suitable 
compensation based on any material loss, distress and/or inconvenience a complainant has 
suffered as a result of the firm’s actions.
I don’t see that what Ms K has said provides me with a reason to change my provisional 
findings and so I adopt them in full in this final decision, along with the compensation I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must reduce 
the balance of Ms K’s loan by £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2024.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
