DRN-1819990
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty TV.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr W acquired a TV costing £1,039 funded by a deposit of £200 and the 
balance with a fixed sum loan agreement payable over three years. He says it stopped 
working properly in 2015. He contacted the retailer to say the apps no longer worked. He 
says he was referred to the manufacturer which sent him a USB to improve the memory 
capacity. Mr W says this didn’t work and he complained to Creation in 2019. He has 
explained that he hadn’t realised he could complain to the finance company until 2018.
He says that the smart features stopped working intermittently and then permanently. Mr W 
says that the manufacturer has told him the update of one app he uses regularly means the 
TV cannot handle it.
Creation rejected Mr W’s complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didn’t recommend it be upheld. Mr W said the TV 
had been built of cheap components and wasn’t durable.
Our investigator said that apps don’t remain compatible indefinitely and if a third-party app 
provided changes the requirements that cannot be held to be the fault of the manufacturer. 
He said that Mr W took up the matter with Creation after six months had passed and the 
onus was on him to demonstrate the TV wasn’t fit for purpose at the time of sale. 
Mr W didn’t agree and said the manufacturer must have been aware of potential updates 
proposed by the app suppliers and it had failed to build in sufficient capacity to cope. He 
asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr W I do not consider that I can uphold his complaint. I 
will explain why.
Consumer law requires goods to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. I have seen nothing to 
suggest that the TV wasn’t fit for purpose when Mr W acquired it in 2014. At the time it was 
sold the TV was capable of supporting the apps and as time passed the third-party app 
providers introduced updates that could eventually exceed the capacity of older TVs.
Such changes can happen quite quickly and manufacturers cannot always anticipate such 
changes or make their product future proof. Mr W has raised the issue of durability and I 
don’t consider that the TV can be said not to have been durable. I gather it still works as a 
TV and in that sense it is durable. I don’t consider its inability to support apps that were 
enhanced at a later date or apps which had yet to be developed is evidence of a lack of 
durability.  
When Mr W bought it in 2014 it worked as he wished and as such it would appear to have 
been made to deal with the smart apps that Mr W used. I can only reiterate that I don’t 
consider the manufacturers can be held responsible for increased demand on memory or 
other capacity required by upgrade apps.
According to Creation the first record the retailer has of Mr W complaining is 2017, but I note 
Mr W says he first encountered problems in 2015. I appreciate that Mr W uses the TV mainly 
for accessing the apps and I have every sympathy with him, but I do not consider I can 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
