 
 
DRN-4990593 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr D has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”)’s response to a 
complaint he made and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account 
Section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
 
What happened 
In August 2014, Mr D bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “H”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
In June 2022, Mr D complained to Creation. He said that he was told by H that the Feed-In 
Tariff (“FIT”) income and electricity savings would easily cover the loan repayments. Mr D 
says that hasn’t happened, as the FIT income has been much less than expected. Mr D 
suggested that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
him and Creation under s.140A.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response. It considered this under Section 75 
of the CCA and said that Mr D had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of 
action occurred. So, considering the provisions of the Limitation Act, the claim had been 
made too late.  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
 
Our Investigator considered Mr D’s complaint and said that:  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, Creation’s 
answer in respect of that seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr D and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr D keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr D had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was 
effectively self-funding.  
 
Mr D accepted the investigator’s view. Creation didn’t respond. 
 
I issued a provisional decision on 23 July 2024 explaining why the complaint is within our 
jurisdiction and that I intended to uphold it. 
 
Mr D’s representative confirmed he was happy with this and had nothing further to add. 
Creation didn’t respond. I then issued a jurisdiction decision on 13 August 2024, confirming 
that we have jurisdiction to consider the complaint. Neither Mr D nor Creation provided any 
further comments.  
 
 
 
So, this is my final decision on the merits of this complaint. It is in line with my provisional 
decision dated 23 July 2024. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
s.75 
Mr D mentioned an alleged breach of contract in his letter to Creation. But he was not 
seeking to make a s.75 claim. He specifically asked that the matter be looked at under 
s.140, since the loan was still being repaid. So, I don’t think s.75 is relevant in this case. 
What can be considered under s.140A 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by H can be 
considered under s.140A, I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming H to be the agent of Creation in any  
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by H for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D.  But 
in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened 
 
Mr D has said that he was told by H’s representative that the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) income 
and electricity savings would easily cover the loan repayments. 
 
Mr D has no documents from the time of sale. He would usually keep such things, so thinks 
he may not have been left with anything. He does recall signing the credit agreement, but 
nothing else. He says that H ceased trading shortly after his system was installed.  
 
Mr D has said he had no prior interest in purchasing solar panels and was led to believe the 
system would mean the end of electricity bills, but that hasn’t happened either. 
 
The credit agreement sets out what Mr D agreed to pay for the system, but understandably 
does not include any information on the benefits the system would provide. So, from the 
information available it appears that Mr D would’ve relied on what he was told. And the only 
record of that is what he remembers. 
 
 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute Mr D’s recollection. Yet with no prior interest 
Mr D agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of around £114, payable 
for ten years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr D’s 
account of what he was told by H is credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term 
commitment, and I don’t think he’d have found this purchase appealing had he not been 
given the assurances he’s said he received from H. 
 
For the solar panels to cover the loan repayments, they would need to produce combined 
savings and FIT income of around £1,370 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate 
Mr D’s system was not performing as expected, but his system has not produced this. So, 
these statements were not true. 
 
I think the H’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr D’s system would 
not have produced benefits at this level – given the size of the system. Whilst there are 
elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, H’s representative would have known 
that Mr D’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the loan repayments as 
stated verbally to Mr D. 
 
Considering Mr D’s account about what he was told, the documentation available from the 
time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t dispute this, I think it likely H gave Mr D a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
 
I consider H’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr D was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that H’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr D went into the transaction. Either way, I think H’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr D’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for H’s negotiations with Mr D in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would not 
otherwise have taken out. 
 
.Putting things right 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr D and Creation’s relationship arising out of H’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr D a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of H’s assurances. That is, that Mr D’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Creation has told us on similar cases that it considers our approach to redress should be in 
accordance with the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
[2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar 
panel system. And even if I am wrong about that, I am satisfied the assurances were such 
that fair compensation should be based on Mr D’s expectation of what he would receive. I 
consider Mr D has lost out and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to 
the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels. 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr D. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr D received from the system over the ten-year 
term of the loan, so Mr D pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr D received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. 
Mr D will need to provide Creation with up-to-date details of his electricity generation meter 
reading and, where available, all relevant FIT statements and electricity bills. But Creation 
can use reasonable assumptions for periods where evidence of the actual benefits is not 
available. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to consider the fairness of its relationship with Mr D 
when responding to him caused him some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this 
Creation should also pay Mr D additional compensation as set out below 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr D’s complaint. To put things right, Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments (including any advance payment/deposit and admin 
fees) Mr D has made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – 
A 
 
• 
Use Mr D’s bills and FIT statements (where available), to work out the benefits he 
received up until the date the settlement is calculated, and a reasonable estimate of 
the benefits he will receive until the end of the original loan term* – B 
 
• 
Calculate the difference between what Mr D actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment from the 
date of overpayment until the date of settlement of the complaint** – C 
 
• 
Pay C to Mr D 
 
• 
Pay Mr D £100 additional compensation 
*Where Mr D has not been able to provide all of his electricity bills and/or FIT benefits, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculation using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
 
 
to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr D how much it’s deducted. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
