 
 
DRN-5272400 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk (Creation) 
applied interest to his running account credit agreement unfairly. 
What happened 
Mr W took out a running account credit agreement with Creation to pay for purchases with a 
retailer. In December 2023, Mr W used his account to spread the cost of a £479 purchase 
with a “Buy Now Pay Later” (BNPL) arrangement.  
Creation emailed Mr W on 17 May 2024 to say his monthly statement was available to view 
online. The email contained a section about Buy Now Pay Later purchases, which said: 
“Your statement will show when your Buy Now Pay Later offer period ends, to help 
you keep track. 
We’ll remind you at least one month before your Buy Now Pay Later purchase offer 
period is due to end” 
Mr W says he didn’t hear further and was shocked to see interest had been applied to the 
outstanding balance owed when he checked his statements in June 2024. Mr W had thought 
that no interest would be applied as long as he repaid the balance by 2 July 2024. Mr W 
complained to Creation. 
In its final response to Mr W’s complaint, Creation said it sent Mr W statements each month 
that included an “important information box” that advised Mr W what would happen if he did 
not repay his outstanding balance by the end of its “special offer”. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to our service. To put things right, 
Mr W wanted a refund of interest applied and £250 compensation. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr W’s complaint but thought his May 2024 statement 
explained when the BNPL period would expire, so didn’t think this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr W asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint, explaining he was 
genuinely confused by Creation’s communications about when the BNPL period expired. 
So, has come to me for a decision.  
 
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr W says he expected a reminder one month before his BNPL agreement ended. I don’t 
think the 15 May 2024 email Mr W refers to says a separate email reminder would be sent 
one month before a BNPL agreement ended. Instead, the email says the end date of any 
BNPL agreement is set out in his statements. 
The credit agreement, signed by Mr W, says that Creation will send monthly statements that 
will show the repayments due and any additional charges to the account. I have seen 
nothing in the terms and conditions that require it to send additional emails notifying a 
customer a month before a BNPL period ends. 
I think the May 2024 statement did include a reminder about the end of the BNPL 
agreement. The statement shows the outstanding balance owed was £479. Underneath the 
outstanding balance, there is a box that said Mr W’s £479 purchase ends on 2 June 2025. 
Underneath this, there was another box entitled “important information”. The important 
information box says the BNPL period is due to end by 4 June 2024. It goes on to say: 
“If you pay the full amount of £479.00 by this date, you will not pay any interest on 
this purchase. After the Buy Now Pay Later period has ended your payment amount 
for this purchase will be £52.27 per month starting on 02/07/2024… Any payments 
that you may make towards this amount by the end of the Buy Now Pay Later period 
will not incur any interest. Any balance left to pay after this date, will incur interest 
from the date of your purchase at the rate specified in your credit agreement.” 
It was ultimately for Mr W to monitor his account and Creation issued statements that 
showed the BNPL end date was 4 June 2024 and how interest would be charged should the 
balance not be repaid in full before the end date.  
As the full outstanding balance was not repaid by 4 June 2024, Creation was entitled to 
apply interest to the outstanding balance owed. I think this was clearly explained in the quote 
above. Creation was not obliged to suspend interest because Mr W complained. I’ve seen 
nothing to make me think Creation charged interest incorrectly. So, whilst I realise my 
decision is likely to disappoint Mr W, I have not recommended a refund or any compensation 
be paid to him. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2025. 
  
 
Victoria Blackwood 
Ombudsman 
 
