 
 
DRN-5580896 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr L is complaining about the quality of a vehicle supplied to him by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation). A representative has assisted Mr L with his complaint, but I’ll refer to 
Mr L throughout my decision for simplicity. 
What happened 
In November 2023, Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement with Creation to acquire a 
car. The agreement states the deposit was £6,500 (£1,000 cash and £5,500 part exchange) 
and Mr L borrowed £16,889 – the cash price of the vehicle was £23,389. The agreement 
required Mr L to make 60 monthly payments of around £355. The car was first registered in 
March 2019 and had done around 63,500 miles when Mr L acquired it.  
In May 2024, Mr L emailed Creation about the quality of the car. He said there was an 
outstanding recall on the vehicle when he bought it and when he took the car to the 
manufacturer to have it fixed, they carried out a vehicle health check and told Mr L he 
needed one of his alloy wheels fixed and one of the tyres changed. Mr L raised the issues 
with the dealership but paid for the repairs himself so he could drive the car away. 
In his email, Mr L said the car then ran fine until April 2024 – when it overheated and then 
cut out, with smoke coming from the engine. He said he’d called the dealership, but they’d 
directed him to the warranty provider – so he’d come to Creation instead. 
Mr L continued, unsuccessfully, to try to resolve things with the dealership. And in early June 
he arranged for a mechanic to inspect the car – which confirmed it was faulty. Creation 
replied to Mr L’s complaint in June 2024, and offered to recover the vehicle and have the 
necessary repairs done.  
However, Mr L said no one arrived at the time arranged for recovery of the vehicle and no 
one contacted him. Two and a half hours later, a car trailer arrived to take the vehicle but 
there was no signage on the trailer and Mr L was unsure of their credentials so didn’t let 
them collect the car. He contacted Creation to explain, and they said he’d done the right 
thing. But Creation wouldn’t let Mr L reject the car as they hadn’t inspected it. Unable to 
resolve things with Creation, Mr L brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr L’s complaint. Her opinion was that Creation hadn’t 
arranged repairs within a reasonable timeframe, or without significant inconvenience. She 
noted that Mr L may have contributed to the delays, but her view was that he hadn’t acted 
unreasonably. In summary, she concluded that Mr L should be allowed to reject the car and 
Creation should refund to Mr L all payments made since 30 April 2024, as well as his 
deposit. She also considered various expenses Mr L said he’d incurred in respect of the car 
and said Creation should refund £1,333.75 in respect of these, together with statutory 
interest. And she said Creation should pay Mr L £200 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the faulty goods. 
Mr L and Creation both made further representations, but our investigator’s view didn’t 
change. Mr L accepted the view in early October 2024 and Creation accepted it towards the 
end of October 2024.  
 
 
Four weeks later, in late November 2024, Mr L let us know Creation hadn’t yet settled the 
complaint. He said this was adding further stress as both the insurance and MOT had 
expired so he was anxious about anything happening to the car while he continued to be 
liable for it. He added that he’d paid a further £80 to remove the private registration plate 
from the vehicle and said he was continuing to make the monthly payments due under the 
agreement. He was upset about the amount of stress the situation was causing him and his 
family. 
Mr L asked for an ombudsman’s decision to ensure Creation would pay the agreed 
settlement. Over the months that followed, Mr L contacted us several times explaining the 
impact this was having on him.  
The complaint was allocated to me for a decision. When I asked for an update, Mr L told us 
Creation had last taken a payment in February 2025 and had paid him around £12,500 in 
March 2025. He provided the breakdown they’d sent. He said he’d received no confirmation 
that the finance agreement had ended or that no further payments would be taken. And he 
said that the £200 compensation was acceptable at the beginning of October, but, given how 
long it had taken for Creation to collect the car and issue a refund, he now thought the 
compensation figure should be higher. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2025 in which I said I thought Creation should pay 
Mr L a further £400. I didn’t think £200 was a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
he’d suffered over the ten to eleven months between the vehicle first failing and Creation 
paying the settlement. In that provisional decision, I said: 
“The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation were the supplier of the goods 
under this agreement and are therefore responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says 
that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory”. To be considered satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need to meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and other relevant circumstances. 
In their response to Mr L’s complaint, Creation acknowledged the car wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. So there’s no dispute over this. 
The CRA says that a supplier must be given one chance to repair or replace goods before 
a consumer can reject them. So, I can’t say Creation should initially have allowed Mr L to 
reject the car instead of repairing it.  
However, the CRA also says that a supplier should carry out repairs within a reasonable 
time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. Mr L first told Creation about 
the problems with the car on 1 May 2024. Mr L gave a detailed description of what had 
gone wrong, and I think it’s clear from that email that the car wasn’t safe to drive. It was 
seven weeks between that date and the date they attempted to pick up the car and take it 
for repairs. Given the state of the car, I don’t think that was a reasonable time. And it was 
clearly at significant inconvenience to the consumer who was without a car for that period. 
So, I’m satisfied it’s fair for Mr L to be allowed to reject the vehicle.  
Putting things right 
Creation accepted our investigator’s view that Mr L should be allowed to reject the vehicle. 
They have now refunded Mr L’s deposit, all his monthly payments since 30 April 2024 
 
 
(when the car broke down), and several other expenses Mr L incurred in relation to the 
vehicle, including the cost of removing the private registration plate.  
Mr L isn’t claiming any further financial loss. He wants confirmation that the hire purchase 
agreement has been terminated, and no further payments will be taken. And he thinks the 
£200 compensation no longer reflects the impact the problems have had on him and his 
family. 
I agree with Mr L that Creation should confirm they’ve terminated the hire purchase 
agreement. They should provide this confirmation to Mr L in writing, together with 
confirmation that no further direct debits will be collected. 
I’ve thought carefully about the impact the whole situation has had on Mr L. I’m unable to 
award compensation for the impact it’s had on his family members, but I can take into 
account the fact that any impact on his family members is likely to have caused Mr L some 
distress. While I haven’t detailed everything Mr L’s told us below, I’d like to reassure him 
that I have taken all his comments into account. 
In summary, Mr L was supplied with a car of unsatisfactory quality. Within two months, he 
had to take it to a garage for a manufacturer recall and while he was there, he was 
presented with two further problems that needed fixing. So he was inconvenienced for a 
couple of days in January 2024. 
Then in April 2024, he had problems with the car while driving on the motorway. He had to 
stop on the hard shoulder for around 15 minutes. And then the car cut out completely and 
started smoking. This sounds like a very stressful experience. 
Over the course of two months during May and June 2024, Mr L contacted the dealership 
and Creation several times to try to get the car repaired. And he arranged for it to be taken 
to a mechanic to diagnose the problem. He’s told us he took three days off work because 
he couldn’t get to the office without his car. And then he started to use his wife’s car which 
left her without any transport. Mr L said his wife arranged lifts from friends on occasion and 
used taxis on occasion but was often without any transport and his children had to stay at 
home during the school holidays because he needed a car for work. 
I appreciate Mr L could have allowed the recovery company to take the car towards the 
end of June. If he had, it’s possible the car would have been returned to him, repaired, 
shortly after and the matter would have had no further impact on Mr L. However, I 
understand why Mr L didn’t allow the recovery company to take the car – he was 
concerned about their credentials and felt responsible for the car. Mr L contacted Creation 
immediately to explain what had happened. They could have rearranged collection but 
didn’t. So I think it’s reasonable to hold them at least partly responsible for the continued 
impact on Mr L after the failed collection. 
The car remained in Mr L’s possession for a further six months until January 2025 despite 
both parties having accepted our investigator’s proposed resolution by the end of 
October 2024. It’s clear Mr L felt anxious about this – and even more so when the 
insurance and MOT expired in November 2024. He’s described to us the impact of this 
stress and anxiety on his existing health conditions and it’s seems likely that it 
exacerberated those problems. We passed Mr L’s emails in November, December and 
January on to Creation – so they were aware of the impact their delays were having on 
Mr L.  
In addition Mr L’s family had to continue to rely on the goodwill of others for transport as 
the cost of taxis was prohitive. And, Creation continued to collect the monthly direct debit 
from Mr L, even after they’d collected the car. I’m persuaded the matter continued to cause 
 
 
stress and inconvenience until Creation paid the settlement to Mr L in March 2025 – just 
over ten months after Mr L first contacted Creation.  
Overall, it’s clear Mr L’s suffered a substantial amount of stress, anxiety, frustration, 
distress and inconvenience as a result of Creation’s actions. On balance, I think £600 
would be fair compensation – meaning Creation should pay an additional £400 to Mr L.” 
Mr L accepted my decision. Creation didn’t – they confirmed the agreement had been closed 
but said they’d be willing to pay an additional £200 because they weren’t responsible for all 
of the delays. I asked them for evidence of this, saying I’d need to see Mr L had caused 
delays of at least two weeks for it to change my opinion, but didn’t hear any more before the 
deadline given. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Creation said in response to my provisional decision that some of the delays were caused by 
not having all of the invoices needed to process a refund, and some by a holiday which 
caused delays in the dealership collecting the car. It’s not clear exactly who they held 
responsible for these delays and they haven’t provided any further evidence.  
When I said I thought Creation should pay an additional £400, it wasn’t solely because of the 
delays in the settlement, I also didn’t think our investigator’s suggested compensation went 
far enough. So, even if Mr L had some part to play in the delays to his compensation being 
paid, I’ve not seen any evidence that this was significant and I’m satisfied Creation should 
pay an additional £400 as I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision 
As I’ve explained, I’m inclined to uphold Mr L’s complaint and say Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd need to:  
• 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay (if this hasn’t already been done) and 
confirm this in writing to Mr L; and 
• 
Pay a further £400 to Mr L to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2025.  
  
 
Clare King 
Ombudsman 
 
