DRN-3385681
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined an application for credit and 
that it will not tell him the reason for its decision.
What happened
In or around July 2021 Mr S applied for a credit facility to finance the purchase of goods 
costing £520 from a department store which has links with Creation. His application was 
declined. Mr S asked why Creation had reached that decision. It explained that the 
application did not meet its internal lending criteria but would not give any more detail.
Mr S asked this service to look at the matter. One of our investigators did that and noted 
that, whilst Creation was not under a duty to provide a detailed explanation, both the Lending 
Standards Board’s Standards of Lending Practice and the Finance and Leasing 
Association’s Lending Code require its members to disclose the main reason for their 
decisions not to lend. The investigator indicated that Creation should tell Mr S the main 
reason for its lending decision, as the general explanation it had given did not do that.
In response, Creation provided this service (but not Mr S) with more information about its 
lending decision. I therefore reviewed the case afresh and issued a provisional decision.
I noted that, when the investigator issued their preliminary assessment of the complaint, 
Creation had not provided us with any information about the case. Its response to the 
assessment was however to explain the reasons behind the lending decision. Creation had 
provided that information in confidence, as our rules allow. I was satisfied that the 
information was commercially sensitive and should be kept confidential. I was also satisfied 
that Creation’s decision not to provide Mr S with a credit facility had been legitimately made 
in the exercise of its commercial judgment. 
I did not therefore require Creation to disclose to Mr S the reasons for its decision or to take 
any further steps to resolve his complaint. 
Neither Creation nor Mr S had anything more to add in response to my provisional decision.    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further steps to resolve Mr S’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
