DRN-2629018
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”) rejected a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 when the wrong goods were 
delivered.
  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr A visited a furniture retail shop and ordered a sofa, dining table and 
six dining chairs. He paid for the goods via a fixed sum loan agreement with CCF.
Mr A says that although the correct sofa and dining table were delivered, the dining chairs 
he received weren’t the ones he ordered. The retailer accepted that the wrong chairs were 
delivered initially, but said the correct chairs were subsequently received by Mr A in 
January 2019. Mr A says he received the wrong set of dining chairs on three occasions 
and, that on the last occasion in January 2019, the retailer had refused to collect and 
replace them.
Mr A says that because of the ongoing dispute, he told both the retailer and CCF that he 
would cancel the direct debit for the payments due under the agreement, from June 
2019. He also made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to CCF 
on the grounds there had been a breach of contract.
CCF didn’t allow Mr A’s claim as it said the retailer had confirmed the correct chairs had 
been delivered. This was evidenced by Mr A signing the delivery note once one of the 
chairs had been unpacked and checked by A that it was the correct model.
Mr A was unhappy at CCF’s decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr A’s complaint should be upheld. He said that he was satisfied 
that it was more likely than not that Mr A had received the wrong chairs and a breach of 
contract had occurred.
Our investigator said that, looking at the paperwork, it wasn’t possible to say the contract 
hadn’t been breached as the order invoice only gave the name of the chairs ordered but 
no other details such as their colour. The financial agreement also only stated “chairs”. 
and no other details about what had been ordered by Mr A. 
The investigator said that he accepted Mr A’s evidence that, although he’d signed the 
delivery note, this had only been to confirm the chairs had arrived and not that they were 
the ones he had ordered in July 2018. Mr A had explained that he’d been in a hurry due 
to work pressures and hadn’t properly checked the contents of the boxes until later. As 
soon as Mr A had realised the chairs were the wrong colour, he had contacted the 
retailer.
Mr A had then held on to the chairs unopened for a period of 18 months, and our 
investigator said he didn’t think that if they were the ones Mr A had ordered that he would 
have kept them packaged and unused. CCF also hadn’t been able to provide any 
evidence that the chairs ordered by Mr A were the ones that had been delivered
Our investigator said that, unfortunately, the retailer had now ceased trading so the chairs 
couldn’t be replaced with those Mr A had originally ordered. He said it would be fair for the 
chairs to be collected, and any payments made by Mr A towards them to be reimbursed 
with interest. And, as the loan had been for multiple items, the cost of the chairs needed 
to be removed, along with any applied interest and the loan balance adjusted accordingly.
As Mr A had stopped making payments under the credit agreement CCF had served a 
default notice on him. This was also recorded on his credit file. Our investigator said that 
the only reason the payments were stopped by Mr A was due to the dispute over the 
chairs. And he thought it would be fair for this adverse information to be removed, together 
with any charges that had been applied.
Mr A agreed with our investigator’s view, though he said he thought it would be fair that 
he be compensated for not being able to use the dining chairs since they were delivered 
in January 2019. Having them in the house had caused him distress and 
inconvenience.
CCF said that it agreed that the chairs should be collected and Mr A reimbursed due to 
the lack of evidence as to what chairs had been ordered by him. But it disagreed that the 
adverse information as to Mr A’s non-payment of the agreement should be removed from 
his credit file. It said it had a responsibility to record accurately how a consumer managed 
an account and, although Mr A had decided to stop paying, he had remained liable under 
the agreement.
As the parties weren’t able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
CCF hadn’t disputed that it wasn’t able to evidence that the correct chairs were delivered 
to Mr A, and so it couldn’t disagree that a breach of contract was more likely than not to 
have occurred. It agreed that the chairs should be collected, and the loan agreement 
adjusted for those goods to be removed from it. However, it strongly objected to removing 
the adverse information recorded in Mr A’s credit file about this agreement. It said it 
wasn’t agreed that Mr A could stop making payments and the credit agreement was for a 
number of items, not just the chairs.
So, the issue for me to consider was whether CCF should remove this adverse 
information from his credit file and whether it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 
compensation to Mr A for being left with the wrong dining chairs and not being able to 
use them.
While I appreciated why Mr A stopped making payments because of the ongoing dispute 
about the chairs seemingly not being resolved, I couldn’t reasonably say he was within 
his rights to do so. I thought it was clear that when a credit agreement was entered into 
then the consumer had an obligation to make the payments as and when required under 
that agreement and, if payments were stopped without both party’s agreement, then 
there might be consequences. And here I also had to take into account that the 
agreement included items with which Mr A was satisfied.
Where a breach of contract arises then the remedy may be for the contract to be 
cancelled and the goods returned. In these circumstances any adverse information about 
the agreement would be removed from the consumer’s credit file. Here, cancellation of the 
agreement wasn’t possible as the credit agreement covered a number of items some of 
which Mr A was content with. So, that meant this credit agreement needed to be adjusted 
and the cost of the chairs, together with any interest applied for those items, be removed. I 
didn’t think the information recorded on Mr A’s credit file was an accurate reflection of the 
agreement as the payments towards the chairs couldn’t be separated out. In light of that, 
and also that there was a breach of the contract, I thought it would be fair in these 
circumstances for all the adverse information relating to this agreement to be removed. I 
thought it was reasonable to expect adverse information recorded on a credit file to be fair 
as well as being 
accurate.
Mr A had requested compensation for the impact of having the chairs in his home for so 
long. I accepted this would have caused him inconvenience, but I didn’t think I could 
reasonably say this was the fault of CCF. My remit was to look at the actions of CCF and 
how it had handled his claim under section 75. I wasn’t looking at the actions of the 
retailer and the distress and inconvenience its actions had caused Mr A.
Mr A raised his claim under section 75 with CCF in August 2019 and I’d seen that CCF 
responded to Mr A’s claim within a reasonable time period and after contacting the 
retailer. Although I appreciated CCF’s original decision was to decline Mr A’s claim under 
section 75 I didn’t think I could say that CCF wasn’t entitled to make the decision. It had 
investigated and considered the information provided by the retailer. CCF had since 
reviewed that decision in light of subsequent events.
I also appreciated Mr A was unhappy that CCF had made contact with him about the 
missing payments under the agreement, but he had stopped making these payments 
before he raised his complaint with CCF. And, as set out above, I didn’t think Mr A was 
entitled to take the action that he had. I think CCF’s actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances. It was entitled to ask for the payments to be made under the agreement.
For the reasons set above I wasn’t intending to ask CCF to pay Mr A compensation for 
having the chairs in his home for so long but I was intending to uphold the remaining part 
of Mr A’s complaint regarding the information recorded on his credit file about this 
agreement.
So, I intended to ask CCF to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at no cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that the cost of the chairs and applicable 
interest was removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file.
Mr A has agreed with my provisional view though he wished to stress that he had never 
opened any of the chair boxes when they were delivered to check their contents. CCF hasn’t 
asked me to look again at any parts of my decision but to clarify the cost of the chairs so that 
the credit agreement’s balance can be correctly adjusted.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I haven’t changed 
my view. It’s accepted by both parties that there was a breach of contract and that the chairs 
should be collected from Mr A with the credit agreement being adjusted to reflect that.
I also think that, although Mr A stopped making payments, any adverse information should 
be removed by CCF from his credit record. This is because such information should be both 
fair and accurate.
So, for the reasons given above I’m partially upholding Mr A’s complaint. 
Putting things right
I’m asking CCF to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at a time that is convenient and at no 
cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that £597, being the cost of the chairs, 
together with the applicable interest is removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m partially upholding Mr A’s claim. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at a time that is convenient and at no 
cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that £597, being the cost of the chairs, 
together with the applicable interest is removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
