DRN-3521279
The complaint
Mrs S complains about a decision by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) not to 
uphold a claim she made to them about goods not being delivered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This section 
says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to 
claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Creation haven’t provided much evidence here. I’ve seen a copy of their final response to 
Mrs S in which they accept that the goods were ordered and that Mrs S disputed delivery 
with the supplier. They say in that response that the supplier was satisfied there was enough 
evidence the delivery was made but Creation haven’t provided that evidence.
Mrs S has demonstrated she completed a denial of receipt form and she’s been prepared to 
escalate her complaint to this service. On balance, I’m persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
that Mrs S didn’t receive the S7 tablet she paid for.
Putting things right
Creation should refund any money and interest Mrs S has paid towards the purchase and 
they should add 8% interest to any refund as Mrs S has been deprived of that money.
They’ll need to remove that item from her running account credit agreement and ensure any 
reports they have made to her credit file in relation to that purchase are removed.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund any money Mrs S has paid towards the purchase and add 8% simple interest 
per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund any interest accrued on that purchase and add 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. Remove any interest accrued but not paid.

Remove the item from Mrs S’s running account credit agreement and ensure any 
reports made to her credit file in relation to that purchase are removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
