DRN-3944737
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t allow rejection of some furniture 
that was financed using a fixed sum loan agreement.
Mrs T is represented in this complaint, but for ease I’ll refer only to Mrs T. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs T acquired a sofa from a retailer I’ll call “D”. Mrs T paid a deposit of 
£202.30 and the remaining £1879.70 for the sofa was to be paid for using an interest free 
fixed sum loan agreement from Creation. Mrs T was required to make 46 monthly 
repayments of £40.86.
Mrs T reported some faults with the sofa and in September 2017 accepted a refund of £525 
from D as compensation for those issues. She was allowed to keep the sofa. Mrs T then 
reported further faults in late 2019. D initially agreed to repair the problems with the sofa but 
later agreed to allow Mrs T to exchange it. This was done by giving Mrs T store credit so that 
she could select what replacement she wanted. Mrs T selected two sofas and a coffee table 
which were delivered in January 2020. 
Mrs T raised a complaint with Creation in January 2021. She said that D had given her a 
voucher for £100 as compensation for issues when it delivered the replacement sofas, 
however, she could no longer use the voucher as D had gone into administration. She said 
that further to this there was no longer any valid warranty on the furniture and for this reason 
wanted to reject the furniture and get a refund. 
Creation said it wouldn’t accept a rejection of the furniture. It said the warranty was still valid 
and, if it wasn’t it would honour the original terms. It said any arrangement for compensation 
Mrs T had with D didn’t have anything to do with Creation as it wasn’t involved. 
Mrs T then referred her complaint to our service also in January 2021. In May 2022, she said 
that in addition to the issue of the voucher and warranty, the sofa and table also had faults 
and wanted us to consider that complaint too. Creation agreed for these issues to be 
included in the complaint being considered by our service. Creation also agreed to arrange 
an independent inspection of the sofas to determine the cause of the faults. The inspection 
was completed in October 2022. 
The independent inspection concluded that the issues with the sofa were down to expected 
wear and tear with a sofa that was three years old. It said there was no evidence of any 
manufacturing fault with the furniture. Mrs T said the report wasn’t accurate because it 
incorrectly stated the sofa was six years old. This meant the report could not be relied on. 
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Creation had 
agreed to honour the terms of the original warranty Mrs T was given, provided she could 
provide details of what it had covered. She thought this was fair. She said that she didn’t 
think it was reasonable to say that Creation had any responsibility for any issues that might 
have arisen with the coffee table. This was because the original credit agreement related to 
the purchase of a sofa and Mrs T only had the coffee table because she selected it when 
replacing the original sofa with store credit, it wasn’t done with Creation’s involvement. 
She did think Creation could still be held responsible for any quality issues with the 
replacement sofas. However, she wasn’t persuaded that there was evidence to demonstrate 
the replacement sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality. As she didn’t think there had been a 
breach of contract, she didn’t think Creation needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mrs T didn’t accept that outcome. In summary, she said that the independent report needed 
to be done again. This is because Creation had incorrectly told the inspector that the sofa 
was six years old and that is what they based their opinion on. It is therefore wrong to rely on 
the report when considering whether the replacement sofa was of satisfactory quality. She 
said that she first raised her concerns about the quality of the sofa after one year and the 
inspection should have been completed as if the sofa was one year old. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs T purchased the original sofa under a fixed sum loan agreement from Creation, I’ve 
considered whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with her 
complaint about seeking rejection of the replacement furniture supplied by D. 
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) is that if 
Mrs T has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier of the 
goods (in this case D) that she purchased using finance, she can bring a like claim against 
the finance provider (in this case Creation), provided that certain conditions are met. For 
completeness, I’m satisfied those other conditions are met here. I’ve therefore thought about 
whether Mrs T does have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
The original sofa financed by the credit agreement was faulty. It appears all parties accept 
this was due to a manufacturing defect. I’ve seen an independent report completed in 2019, 
which also confirms this. I’m therefore satisfied there was likely a breach of contract at this 
time for which Creation could be held jointly liable. 
However, I understand that particular breach of contract was remedied by D. It offered to 
replace the faulty sofa by giving Mrs T store credit towards replacement furniture of her 
choice. I understand Mrs T accepted this resolution at the time. It appears Mrs T then 
selected two sofas of a different specification to the first sofa she had as well as a coffee 
table. Mrs T tells us she had to spend around £300 more of her own money to be able to pay 
for the coffee table as the store credit didn’t cover the entire purchase cost. 
The coffee table was therefore in my view an additional purchase, unrelated to the original 
contract for the sofa. The original contract was for the supply and purchase of a sofa only 
and Creation appears to have had no involvement or even any awareness that D had agreed 
to a complete replacement of the sofa in 2019. All the evidence I’ve seen points to Creation 
believing a repair was going to be carried out. 
I don’t therefore think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Creation liable for any potential 
issues with the coffee table when the purchase of a table was never in consideration during 
the original contract. Further, Creation don’t appear to have been consulted in relation to it 
being included at a later date as part of a remedy and Mrs T appears to have paid a 
significant portion of the cost using her own money, with the rest being funded by store 
credit.
It's not entirely clear whether Creation could be held jointly responsible for any quality issues 
with the replacement sofas either. This is because the details for how the store credit was 
agreed and what was negotiated in store are very limited. Nobody has been able to confirm 
exactly how much store credit Mrs T even received. While Creation doesn’t appear to have 
been involved in that process, I’ve considered that if they had been informed it’s likely they 
would have agreed to the replacement as it was clear the previous sofa was faulty due to a 
manufacturing defect. Therefore, I think it’s fair and reasonable to say that Creation are likely 
to be liable for any quality issues with the replacement sofas too. 
Mrs T says the independent report on the sofa is unreliable as it says the sofas were six 
years old. I agree that the furniture age on the report is clearly wrong. However, I don’t think 
this makes the view of the inspector invalid or unreliable. I say this because the comments in 
the report from the inspector clearly demonstrate he understood how old the sofas were. He 
says in the report that the current issues are ‘consistent with age and usage’ and that this 
relates to ‘3 years of use.’ At the time of the report, the replacement sofas had been in 
Mrs T's possession almost three years. So, it seems to me the inspector was appropriately 
assessing the quality of the sofas in relation to their true age, not the age stated at the top of 
the report. 
Mrs T also says that the quality of the sofa should be assessed as a one year old sofa. 
However, I can’t agree that would be reasonable. At the time it was inspected it was almost 
three years old, so it is fair and reasonable that it is on this basis its quality is assessed. The 
report concluded that the issues with the sofas were down to expected wear and tear given 
its age and usage. I therefore don’t have any persuasive evidence to indicate the 
replacement sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. For this reason, 
I don’t think Creation have any responsibility to put things right. 
While Mrs T says she first raised the faults within a year, I’ve not seen anything to 
demonstrate that Mrs T raised these concerns that early. She first mentioned an issue with 
the sofas to our service in June 2021, many months after first referring her complaint about 
the warranty and £100 compensation. She then confirmed in May 2022 that this was a 
complaint she wanted to make to Creation. Given all of this, I don’t think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude that Creation should have instructed an inspection of the 
sofas at an earlier point in time. 
Mrs T has also complained about the warranty given to her by D. Creation has already 
agreed to honour the terms of the original warranty provided Mrs T can give details of what 
was covered. However, Mrs T has been unable to do this. I don’t think Creation has treated 
her unfairly in relation to this. Given D are in administration and it was them that offered 
Mrs T the warranty, I don’t find it unreasonable that Creation can’t obtain a copy of it. 
Lastly, regarding the £100 compensation D offered to Mrs T. I don’t think this is something 
which Creation can be held jointly responsible for under section 75. I understand this was 
given to Mrs T as compensation for some issues with the delivery of the replacement 
furniture. However, as it didn’t relate to any breach of contract or misrepresentation about 
the goods financed under the fixed sum loan agreement, it isn’t something it would be fair to 
say Creation have some liability for what went wrong, especially when Creation weren’t 
involved in the negotiation for replacement products. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman
