DRN-2739195
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty chair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Mr W complained to the merchant, which I will call S, within 30 days of delivery of the chair 
in September 2018. He told S he wished to reject it. It arranged for the chair to be inspected 
and concluded it wasn’t faulty. I have noted that this was not an independent inspection. The 
onus was on S to demonstrate the chair was of an acceptable quality and I don’t believe 
having a technician say so is sufficient. 
However, a second inspection took place in November 2019 and this concluded that the 
chair was faulty and required remedial work. Mr W has told us that he hadn’t used the chair 
in the intervening period. The technician concluded that “the back cushion has flattened. It 
needs more fibre adding to fill out the back cushion…”
It seems logical to me that if the cushion contained insufficient padding a little over a year 
after purchase then it also lacked that padding at the outset and therefore it was faulty. Mr W 
asked that he be allowed to reject it within 30 days and I am satisfied that it was faulty so he 
was within his rights to reject the chair. In the circumstances S does not have the right to 
effect one repair. 
Our investigator has also noted that the chair which was part of a set was manufactured 
differently to the sofa and Mr W had the right under consumer law to expect them to be the 
same unless he was told otherwise. Mr W said the chair wasn’t on display and he tried the 
sofa which has been satisfactory. He believed the chair would of a similar construction, 
however the back the sofa was foam and the chair was padded. 
I appreciate Creation has said there is no supporting evidence to confirm Mr W’s version of 
events. I agree, but I have seen the invoice for the sofa and it provide little in the way of 
detail about the construction and no evidence has been forthcoming about how the furniture 
was advertised. It has said that it may be appropriate for two different materials to be used 
and that may be the case, but the issue is whether that was made clear to Mr W. I am 
satisfied that he was unaware of the difference and so I consider this gives further grounds 
for rejection.
I have seen material from S which suggests, amongst other things that Mr W should make 
some contribution towards the use of the chair. However, he identified it as faulty within a 
week or so and it was open to S to take the chair back at that point. It chose not to and I do 
not consider that Mr W should be required to make any contribution.
Putting things right
 Mr W should be allowed to reject the chair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to: 

End the finance agreement with nothing for Mr W to pay.

Refund any payment made by Mr W from the start of the agreement to termination 
plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until the date it is 
refunded.

Arrange for the collection of the sofa at no cost to Mr W.

Arrange to have details of the agreement removed from Mr W’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
