DRN-4030130
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly reported a number of hard 
searches on his credit file, and then took too long to remove them after he complained.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr S was shopping online for a new fridge freezer, on a website run by a 
third party. He applied to buy it on a buy now pay later agreement with Creation, and was 
told on the website and by email that he had been pre-approved for a credit limit of £3,500. 
During this online process, he was told that there would not be a hard credit search 
(meaning a search which is visible to other businesses on his credit file – as opposed to a 
soft search, which is still reported to a consumer’s credit file but is visible only to him).
The email told Mr S to take the email with him into the retailer’s store and to show it to the 
staff there. He did that later that day. Mr S describes the staff in store (the person who 
served him originally and also the managers Mr S spoke to later) as inept, and says that due 
to their incompetence they carried out at least two hard searches, which he later discovered 
had been recorded on his credit file for all to see. He was also told that he was only eligible 
for £500 of credit – which was not enough to buy what he wanted – instead of the limit he 
had been promised earlier.
Mr S complained to both the retailer and to Creation. Neither of them upheld his complaint. 
The retailer told him that it is possible for people to be pre-approved for credit before full 
(hard) credit checks have been carried out, only to have their application for credit declined 
after a full check; the retailer said it was not responsible for that. Creation told Mr S that a 
soft credit search is carried out at the pre-approval stage, but that a hard search is always 
necessary when an application is formally made (because lenders are required to check a 
customer’s creditworthiness). Creation said it was not responsible if the retailer’s staff had 
told Mr S something different in the store. Neither party addressed the complaint about 
multiple hard searches.
Being dissatisfied with those responses, Mr S brought this complaint against Creation to our 
service. Separately, he contacted the relevant credit reference agency about the hard 
searches, and that agency contacted Creation and asked Creation to stop reporting the hard 
searches. Creation agreed to do that (without conceding that it had been wrong to carry out 
a hard search), and also offered to pay Mr S £75 for his inconvenience. Mr S accepted that 
offer, but he subsequently learned that the hard searches were still being reported on his 
credit file. For that reason, this complaint was re-opened.
In February 2023, Creation again asked the credit reference agency to remove the hard 
searches from Mr S’s credit file.
Following all that, our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted that no hard 
search had been carried out a the pre-approval stage. She was satisfied that Creation had 
requested the removal of the hard searches done in the store, and that this was enough to 
fairly resolve this complaint. She did not think that the multiple hard searches were 
Creation’s fault (notwithstanding its offer of £75).
Mr S was not satisfied with that decision. He said that it had taken far too long for Creation to 
remove the hard searches, which it should have done in August. He provided an update 
from the credit reference agency which showed that some searches were still appearing on 
his credit file. He said the decision to decline him enough credit to pay for the fridge freezer 
meant that he was out of pocket. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I am satisfied that the three relevant entries which are still appearing on Mr S’s credit file are 
soft searches, and that all of the hard searches have been removed. I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary. As a soft search was part of the normal process, these would still 
have happened if nothing had gone wrong in the store. Also, as I've said already, soft 
searches do not affect a credit score, as only Mr S can see them, so there is no detrimental 
effect on him by them still being there.
I have seen evidence that two hard searches were carried out in the store. The first hard 
search was part of the normal process, but it seems that nobody thought to tell Mr S that at 
the time. Creation provided some screenshots of what it said Mr S would have seen online, 
but the text appears to have been written as if it was intended to be read by the retailer, 
because instead of referring to the consumer as “you” it says “your customer.” So although 
that text does mention that a hard search will be carried out, Mr S would only have known 
that if the retailer’s staff had told him about it in the store. He says they didn’t.
It sounds to me that what happened in the store was a bit of a fiasco. I accept Mr S’s 
description of events, as I have no reason to doubt him, and also because his story is 
corroborated by the fact that two hard searches were carried out on the same occasion, and 
there would have been no reason for a second hard search if things had gone smoothly. 
I accept that that is the retailer’s fault, not Creation’s, but I do not agree that Creation is not 
responsible for what the retailer did. Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the 
retailer is treated as having acted as Creation’s agent, and so Creation is responsible for the 
retailer’s actions. So I have to consider what the consequences are of having not one but 
two hard searches recorded on Mr S’s credit file, and of not telling him that there was going 
to be a hard search.
If Mr S had been told in store that a hard search would have to be carried out before his 
credit limit of £3,500 could be approved, I’m sure he would have been annoyed by that 
(since he thought he had already been approved for it), but I think that he would probably still 
have agreed to it. That is because the alternative would have been that his application would 
definitely be declined. Unfortunately it was still declined anyway, but that is sometimes what 
happens when people apply for credit. Creation is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and 
so I am unable to uphold Mr S’s complaint that his application for a £3,500 credit limit was 
declined.
The second hard search ought not to have happened and, having happened, should have 
been removed from Mr S’s credit file. That may have affected his credit score, but I have not 
been told that Mr S applied for more credit and was declined during the period in which both 
searches were being reported. (And even if that did happen, I would be unable to conclude 
that the second hard search was the reason for it, because Mr S told our investigator that he 
also had a county court judgement recorded on his credit file at the time.)
However, the removal of both hard searches from Mr S’s credit file is more than I would have 
told Creation to do if Creation had done nothing yet. Mr S is now better off than he would 
have been if nothing had gone wrong in the store, because instead of one hard search on 
his credit file – the one that was always supposed to be there – he has none (none relating 
to this purchase anyway). Between that and the £75 compensation, I think that Creation has 
done enough to resolve this matter, and so for that reason I do not uphold the complaint 
about the hard searches.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
