DRN-3499378
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a credit 
facility he couldn’t afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2017, Mr A was provided with a £1,500 credit facility by Creation which he used to 
make a buy now pay later purchase. 
Mr A says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the facility wasn’t affordable. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it carried out 
a thorough assessment which included gathering information about Mr A’s residential status, 
employment and salary band and undertaking a credit check. It says that Mr A met its 
internal lending criteria. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit facility.
Mr A didn’t agree and said that it was accepted that Creation hadn’t done adequate checks. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation carried out a credit check and has provided the outcome from this. This showed 
that Mr A had just under £200 in credit card debt, no outstanding debt in short term lending, 
no monthly commitments in secured lending and £296 of unsecured lending. I think it would 
have been reasonable that the credit check would have been used to identify any issues with 
Mr A’s credit history such as defaults, county court judgements or arrears. I haven’t seen 
evidence that this information was gathered. Mr A provided a copy of his credit file and this 
shows that he had defaulted on a credit card in February 2017 and had been in arrears on a 
second credit card account for several months. Given this, I think Creation ought to have 
been concerned that Mr A may be experiencing some financial difficulties. Therefore, I think 
it would have been proportionate for Creation to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr A’s financial circumstances before lending.
On the finance application, Mr A declared his income as being between £40,000 and 
£49,999. Given the credit information, I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to 
have checked Mr A’s income in some way. Information was gathered on Mr A’s credit 
commitments, and he was recorded as living with parents and having no dependents. But 
Creation didn’t ask Mr A about his expenditure. Without knowing what Mr A’s regular 
committed expenditure was, Creation wouldn’t have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didn’t complete proportionate 
checks. 
I’ve considered what Creation would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. I can’t be certain what Mr A would have told Creation had 
it asked about his regular expenditure. I don’t think Creation needed to request bank 
statements, but in the absence of anything else, I’ve placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Mr A’s statements as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. 
I’ve reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. Based on Mr A’s 
declared income at the application stage, he would have received a minimum monthly take 
home pay of around £2,540. His bank statements didn’t support this. The banks statements 
show that Mr A received income from different sources as well as transferring funds from 
other sources. The income recorded in the three months leading up to the agreement varied 
significantly. May’s figures seem much lower than those for March and April, however taking 
the average he was receiving income into his account of around £1,700 a month (excluding 
the payments from his partner, funds he has said came from the sale of his car and an 
amount deposited which he said was for a family member).
Mr A had some regular committed expenses, including credit cards, loan repayments, 
insurance and payment to communications providers. These totalled around £1,000 a 
month. Mr A was living at home and says he was making payments for board. These 
amounts varied but including an average for this as well as for his food and fuel meant that 
Mr A was spending around the same amount that he was receiving in income. 
While this could raise concerns, I note that the projected monthly repayment after the 
interest free period for the purchase Mr A had made (£718.99) was around £40. While I 
appreciate the total facility provided was for a higher amount, I do not think that the 
repayment amounts raise concerns when compared to Mr A’s income. Mr A’s bank 
statements were generally in credit through the months leading up to the agreement and he 
was able to make transfers to his saving accounts and was transferring funds in from 
another account when needed. Therefore, I do not find that the bank statements raise 
concerns about financial difficulties at the time. 
On balance, noting the likely repayment amounts for the facility I do not find that I have 
enough to say that had further checks taken place Creation would have found the credit 
facility unaffordable or that Mr A would’ve disclosed information that suggested he didn’t 
have sufficient funds to meet the repayments. Therefore, I’m not persuaded that Creation 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
