DRN-4418991
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved a 
loan in her name. 
What happened
Mrs C applied for a loan of £7,500 with Creation in September 2019. Creation says that in 
the application Mrs C advised she was employed with an income of £30,000 a year. Creation 
says it calculated Mrs C would receive around £2,500 net each month. Creation carried out a 
credit search and says it found monthly unsecured credit commitments totalling around 
£780. Creation says it didn’t find any secured lending, like mortgages, in Mrs C’s name and 
used a rent/mortgage figure of £600 for assessment purposes. Creation says it used the net 
monthly income of £2500 and commitments totalling £1,655.09 (including the new loan 
payment) leaving Mrs C with £844.91 each month as disposable income. The loan was 
approved. 
Mrs C has explained the loan formed part of a pattern of borrowing that caused financial 
difficulties. Mrs C’s told us she’s since received debt advice from a third party organisation.
Earlier this year, Mrs C complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
loan in 2019. Creation didn’t agree and said it had applied its normal lending checks before 
deciding whether to proceed. Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and it was passed 
to an investigator. Mrs C supplied copies of bank statements for the months preceding her 
loan application in 2019 and a full copy of her credit file. 
The investigator upheld Mrs C’s complaint as they felt Creation had failed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. The investigator thought that if Creation had looked 
more closely at Mrs C’s circumstances it would’ve most likely declined her loan application. 
Creation responded and asked for supporting information by way of the bank statements Mrs 
C had sent us. Creation’s case handler explained they wanted to refer the information to its 
Risk team to review. The information was forwarded to Creation on 7 September 2023. On 
27 September 2023 Creation asked for more time. That was the last time the investigator 
heard from Creation and it didn’t respond further to their emails. On 25 October 2023 the 
investigator contacted both parties to say Mrs C’s complaint was being referred to an 
ombudsman as no response had been received. As a result, Mrs C’s complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. I’ve had this approach in mind when considering Mrs C’s complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Creation needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mrs C could afford to repay what was being lent. These checks needed to be 
borrower focussed and could take into account things such as the amount of credit, the total 
sum repayable and the consumers financial circumstances. There’s no set list of checks a 
lender has to do. But lenders are required to have regard to the factors I’ve mentioned above 
when deciding what’s reasonable and proportionate.
I’ve reviewed the information Creation provided in its file submission concerning Mrs C’s 
application, including the figures it used to check whether her loan was affordable. I think it’s 
fair to note that Creation’s told us Mrs C gave an income figure of £30,000 a year and that it 
used a net monthly income of £2,500. But that would be the gross income Mrs C received 
before tax and deductions, not the net figure. So as a starting point, it appears Creation used 
a higher “take home” income figure than Mrs C would’ve received if her income had been 
£30,000 which brings its affordability assessment into question. 
I also think it’s fair to note Mrs C had a substantial amount of unsecured debt when she 
applied. Mrs C’s credit file shows she had around £32,350 in unsecured debt at the point of 
her application costing around £915 a month to service. The total borrowing figure is more 
than Mrs C’s declared income which I think should’ve put Creation on notice she may’ve 
been borrowing to support other credit and make ends meet. In addition, Mrs C’s credit file 
shows her mortgage was around £220,000 with repayments of £1,446 a month. Taken 
together, Mrs C would’ve needed to be able to support monthly commitments of £2,361 plus 
the new Creation payment of £160.79. Given the level of outgoings Mrs C had to service 
credit, I think Creation should’ve done more to check she could afford to make repayments 
sustainably for the full term of its loan. There was a range of options available to Creation, 
like obtaining evidence of Mrs C’s income or asking for bank statements.
Mrs C has given us bank statements from the period before her loan was approved. Whilst I 
can’t see evidence of all Mrs C’s outgoings, her earning income was paid into the account 
we have statements for. They show Mrs C’s income varied considerably. In May 2019 Mrs C 
received £190.59 from her employer and in June 2019 she received £621.88. It was only in 
July 2019 that Mrs C received income broadly in line with the figure given in the application 
form when she received £2,349.38. In my view, if Creation had carried out more 
comprehensive checks it would’ve found Mrs C’s income was variable each month and not 
sufficient to support further borrowing. As a result, I think Creation would most likely have 
declined Mrs C’s loan if it had carried out more comprehensive checks during the 
application. I’m satisfied Creation lent irresponsibly when it approved Mrs C’s loan 
application. 
Creation hasn’t provided a specific response to the investigator’s findings. But I’m satisfied 
the investigator provided a reasonable amount of time and sent a number of requests for 
comment before referring the complaint for a decision. Our remit requires us to move cases 
forward without undue delay. I’m satisfied Creation has been given fair opportunity to 
respond and that I have sufficient information already on file to reach a fair decision. So, for 
the reasons I’ve given above, I’m going to proceed and uphold Mrs C’s complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs C’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
Add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this amount.
-
a) If this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). † Creation should also 
remove all adverse information regarding the loan from Mrs C’s credit file
-
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Creation should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs C. Once she has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the loan should be removed from 
her credit file
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
