DRN-4082688
The complaint
Ms A has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) 
administered a fixed sum loan agreement she’d taken out to purchase furniture. 
What happened
Ms A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in December 2021 to pay for 
furniture. The goods cost £1,363. And the agreement set out:
This is a 36 month agreement payable by a first instalment of £62.06 on 25/07/2022, 
followed by 34 monthly instalments of £62.06 payable on the same date of each succeeding 
month and a final instalment of £62.06 on 25/06/2025, or by paying £1363 before 
28/06/2022 (“Special Offer date”).
The pre-contract credit information, and important information sheet also set out that Ms A 
needed to pay £1,363 by the Special Offer date or she’d need to pay a total of £2,234.16. 
Creation also wrote to Ms A to tell her when the Special Offer date ended in December 
2021. 
I understand the goods were delivered in January 2022. 
Creation wrote to Ms A in May 2022 to remind her about the end of the Special Offer date. 
Ms A didn’t pay off the agreement by 28 June 2022, so interest was payable. She spoke to 
Creation in July 2022 to complain:

The reminder had been sent to her previous address and not her current one. The 
goods were delivered to her new address. 

There were two agreements showing on her online account with Creation which was 
incorrect. One was for an order that had been cancelled.
Ms A made payment of £1,363 on 13 July 2022. And it looks like she paid £62.06 monthly 
until the agreement was settled. 
Creation responded to the complaint to say interest was payable as Ms A had not settled the 
agreement by the Special Offer date. It said Ms A had not notified it of her current address, 
and that correspondence was sent to the address it had on file. It also said it had updated 
her online account to only show her active agreement and that it would look into any 
evidence she had about error messages on the dates she attempted to pay. 
Ms A referred the complaint to our service. She also complained the online account is 
misleading and asked Creation to provide a breakdown of how the interest is calculated and 
how much interest she owed until the date the amount was settled. 
Ms A says the matter impacted her financially and mentally. And to resolve the complaint 
she requested the interest is waived and she’s refunded the interest she’d already paid. 
Our investigator looked into things but didn’t uphold the complaint. He said Creation adhered 
to its own terms and conditions with regards to applying interest. He said there wasn’t 
evidence Creation had been given Ms A’s new address to write to. And that the online 
account showed a payment due date in July 2022 because the Special Offer date had 
already passed. 
Ms A didn’t agree with the findings. She said the investigator hadn’t covered off all her 
complaint points. She reiterated she told the supplier of her address change. She said she 
hadn’t received any paperwork from Creation. And that the website was misleading by only 
showing one payment date, i.e., the date in July after the Special Offer date had passed.
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
I asked our investigator to ask for further information from Creation. Creation didn’t have the 
call from when Ms A spoke to it to make payment. But it gave further contact notes and 
details of how the settlement was calculated. 
We asked Ms A: 

Why she used her old address when applying for credit. 

If she had evidence she’d provided her new address to the supplier or Creation. 

If there was any impact caused by having the second account open for the cancelled 
order. 

When did she receive the terms and conditions. 

If she had anything else she’d like us to consider. 
Ms A said her understanding during the sales process was that the credit application 
wouldn’t have been successful if she’d used her old address – she’d only moved address 
around two months before. But she provided the supplier information with her new address. 
Ms A says she doesn’t know whether the second account impacted her or whether it has 
been removed from her credit file. And she says she wasn’t able to find any written 
documentation from when the sale was made. She says she can’t remember how she 
obtained electronic copies. But that her main complaint is based around the confusion 
caused by the two dates.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any 
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Ms A 
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s 
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Ms A has complained about the way Creation administered her fixed sum loan agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. It’s important to note I’m considering a 
complaint against Creation, and not the supplier. I need to consider what Creation is 
responsible for as a provider of financial services. 
I’m sorry to hear the matter has impacted Ms A financially and mentally. And I thank her for 
taking the time to bring the complaint to our service. 
It’s not in dispute that Ms A didn’t make the payment by the Special Offer date. The 
agreement sets out that interest will be added from the date the agreement was signed if this 
wasn’t done. So, as a starting point, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly by applying interest 
when it did. 
I’ve next thought about whether there’s any reason why Creation should waive the interest 
that’s required. Has it acted unfairly in some way that means it shouldn’t be payable?
Ms A has said she used her old address on the credit application because she thought it was 
for credit references only. And she’s said she gave the supplier her new address. She’s not 
been able to provide us evidence from the supplier. But I take her point if the furniture was 
delivered to her new address. However, what I have to bear in mind is that the agreement 
Ms A signed set out how long the interest free period ran, and when she’d need to pay off 
the loan by to avoid interest. So even if she wasn’t sent the reminder letter (which I don’t 
have the evidence to demonstrate Creation made a mistake sending it where it did), I still 
have to consider Ms A agreed to the terms relating to the interest free period. Ms A has 
supplied a copy of the agreement and other correspondence relating to the period as well, 
so I think she had the information available. 
I appreciate Ms A is saying it was confusing having a first payment date showing as 25 July 
2022 on her online account. But this date was correct if she was going to pay the agreement 
by monthly instalments. The documentation she’s supplied said that the other option was to 
pay £1,363 by the special offer date – 28 June 2022. 
Ms A also queried why she was asked to pay around a further £300 to settle the agreement 
in July 2022 in addition to the £1,363 that she’d borrowed. Because she’d missed the special 
offer date, this was the interest that had accrued up until that point. So I don’t find this was 
incorrect. But I can understand why she’d be unhappy if this wasn’t explained properly.
I’ve finally thought about the second account Ms A has said was incorrectly recorded on her 
credit file for a cancelled order. Creation says it would remove this in its final response letter, 
which is what I’d expect. I’ve not been shown sufficient evidence that having the account 
open caused any detriment to Ms A, so I’m not going to direct Creation to take any action in 
relation to it. 
In summary I can understand why Ms A is disappointed. She’s paid interest on an 
agreement she intended to pay off interest free. But I don’t consider she’s paid interest as a 
result of Creation having done something wrong. Taking all the circumstances into account, I 
don’t find I have the grounds to direct Creation to take further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
