DRN-3635687
The complaint
Mrs W complains that the furniture she financed through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to finance the purchase of two 
sofas. Mrs W paid a £100 deposit and was required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
around £112. The sofas were delivered in December 2021.
When the sofas were delivered the feet were missing from the two-seater sofa. Mrs W 
contacted the retailer about this and also raised concerns about the colour not being as 
advertised and the sofas looking worn. The feet were ordered and when fitted the fitter didn’t 
agree that the sofas were faulty. 
Mrs W raised her complaint with Creation. Creation issued a final response letter upholding 
her complaint in regard to the missing feet and said these were on order. It said the retailer 
informed it that the goods were as ordered, and the difference in colour could be attributed to 
the pile being brushed in different directions.
Mrs W didn’t accept Creation’s response and raised her complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs W’s complaint. She noted that the sofa legs had been provided 
but didn’t think that Mrs W’s concern about the quality of the furniture had been fully 
investigated. She said having looked at the photographs provided from the time of delivery in 
December 2021 and then in February 2022 the condition was deteriorating with the cushions 
fading in colour and no longer matching the rest of the sofa. She thought the deterioration 
was beyond what could be reasonably considered wear and tear in the timeframe and so 
was satisfied the sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs W had said she asked to reject the sofas within 30 days, and 
she thought it now reasonable that she was allowed to do this. She didn’t think that Mrs W 
should be required to pay anything for usage noting that Mrs W had said she barely used the 
room due to the appearance of the sofas. 
Creation requested copies of the photographs which our investigator had considered in 
reaching her view. These were sent. As a resolution hasn’t been reached on this complaint, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W complained that the sofas she acquired through the fixed sum loan agreement 
weren’t of satisfactory quality. Her complaint was considered under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA). As our investigator explained, Section 75 allows, in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement to have an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. I agree that it is reasonable that the complaint was considered under Section 75.
The complaint to be considered is whether the issues Mrs W has raised regarding the sofas 
meant that the sofas were faulty and / or not of satisfactory quality and as such a breach of 
contract has occurred. I note that the feet were missing from the two-seater sofa when 
delivered and these have since been fitted and so I have focussed on the issue regarding 
the quality of the furniture.
Mrs W was supplied with new furniture and it is fair that she would expect this to last a 
reasonable amount of time before any substantial change in appearance would occur. I note 
the comment about the pile being brushed in a different direction but the sofas are leather 
and so I do not find this relevant. I have considered the care information included in the 
invoice which says that the leather will stretch and crease and that the natural colour 
variations and markings have been explained. However, having looked at the photographs 
provided from when the sofa was delivered and then the condition of the cushions in the 
photographs taken around six weeks later, I do not find it reasonable to consider this as 
normal wear and tear or features of the materials used. The deterioration in the cushions 
results in them looking substantially different to the rest of the sofa. In the short period of 
time Mrs W had the sofa – and noting she raised the quality issue in January, before the 
February photographs were taken – it seems more likely than not that there is a fault with the 
sofa cushions resulting in the sofas not being of satisfactory quality.
Based on the above I uphold this complaint. I find the reasonable remedy is for Mrs W to be 
able to reject the sofas (bought as a suite) and have any payments refunded. I appreciate 
that Mrs W has had the sofas for a period of time but given when she raised her concerns, 
and accepting her comments about her limited use, I do not find it reasonable that she is 
required to pay for any period of usage.  
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Collect the sofas at no cost to Mrs W.

End the credit agreement with nothing further to pay.

Refund all payments Mrs W made along with 8% interest on any refunded amounts 
from the date paid until the date of settlement.*

Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mrs W’s credit file 
in relation to this agreement.
If Creation thinks that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
this interest, Creation should tell Mrs W how much it’s taken off. Creation should also give 
Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
