DRN-2216399
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2018 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had 
covered mileage of 17,579. 
In August 2018 Miss B experienced an issue with power steering failure. She was without 
use of the car for 13 days and had to arrange her own hire car.
The supplying dealer initially said it wouldn’t cover the cost of repairs. It later agreed to carry 
out repairs under the warranty.
In January 2020 the power steering failed again. Miss B says she hasn’t been able to use 
the car since.
Miss B complained to Creation. In response, it said it would cover the costs of repair if Miss 
B provided evidence that the fault was a manufacturing defect.
Miss B wasn’t happy with this response as she feels that she’s provided enough evidence 
already. To resolve her complaint, she wants Creation to allow her to reject the car, or to 
cover the costs of repairs.
Our investigator said that based on the evidence he’d seen, he couldn’t say that there was 
an underlying manufacturing defect or a failed repair.  But he said that Creation should 
reimburse Miss B the costs of hiring a car when the fault occurred in August 2918.
Miss B didn’t agree. She obtained an independent inspection of the car, as well as a further 
inspection by a mechanic, and said she didn’t think the car was of satisfactory quality 
because she’d experienced two power steering faults in less than two years.
Creation didn’t agree either. It said the first repair had been carried out under warranty and 
not because the car had been found to be of unsatisfactory quality. It didn’t think it should 
have to reimburse the hire costs.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. Durability is also part of satisfactory quality, as although no-one would expect 
the component parts of a car to last forever, they also wouldn’t expect issues to arise with 
the car for a reasonable period of time. 
Miss B acquired the car when it was around 4 years old with mileage of around 17,500. I’d 
expect a second-hand car to require repair and maintenance sooner than a brand new car. 
So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent 
fault with the car, or alternatively that there was a failed repair to the power steering.
The fault with the power steering arose in August 2018, around 7 months after the point of 
supply. I can see that Miss B had covered around 5,900 miles since the point of supply, 
bringing the mileage of the car to 23,495. 
I’ve taken the age and mileage of the car into account, as well as the nature of the fault. I 
don’t think a reasonable person would expect a major component part such as the power 
steering to fail on a car of this age and mileage. 
I’m of the view that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality because the power steering wasn’t 
durable. I appreciate that the repairs were carried out under warranty, but this doesn’t mean 
that the car wasn’t of unsatisfactory quality. 
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. I can 
see that a repair was carried out. However, Miss B was without the use of the car for almost 
2 weeks and had to hire a car in the meantime. Because I’m persuaded that the car wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality, I think Miss B should be reimbursed the costs of the hire car whilst her 
car was being repaired.
I can see that there was another issue with the power steering in January 2020. I’ve looked 
at the available information to decide whether this was due to a failed repair of the previous 
fault. Miss B obtained an independent inspection report in which the engineer commented on 
this. The engineer concluded that because the steering rack had performed without issue for 
16 months since the repairs and because Miss B had covered 14,000 miles in the car during 
that time, it couldn’t be classed as a failed repair. 
I’ve looked at the further information provided by Miss B. There’s no dispute that there’s an 
issue with the steering now. But I don’t think there’s enough evidence to show that the 
current issue is a manufacturing defect or due to a failed repair.  
Putting things right
Based on what I’ve seen and taking account of the conclusions in the independent report 
and the wider circumstances of the case, I’m not persuaded that the car is of unsatisfactory 
quality or that there’s been a failed repair. So, I won’t be asking Creation to cover the costs 
of repairs or asking it to allow Miss B to reject the car. But as I’ve said, I’m of the view that 
Creation must reimburse Miss B the costs of the hire car relating to the period when the fault 
occurred in August 2018.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must reimburse Miss B the sum of £390 for the costs of a hire car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
