 
 
DRN-4834039 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) told him he’d cleared the 
balance on his account but that they subsequently told him further payments were required. 
What happened 
In January 2023 Mr B took out a credit agreement with Creation. Mr B asked for an early 
settlement figure and Creation told him he needed to pay £630.75. He paid that in January 
2024 but a couple of weeks later Creation reactivated the agreement and explained that 
they’d made an error with the early settlement figure and further payments were required. 
Creation offered Mr B £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused but they wouldn’t waive the amount that they said was still due on the account. 
When Mr B referred his complaint to this Service our investigator thought Creation’s offer 
was reasonable. Mr B disagreed, so his complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, 
for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know it will disappoint Mr B, but I think Creation have done enough here. I’ll explain why. 
 
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
 
There’s no dispute that Creation provided the wrong settlement figure and its fair they should 
compensate Mr B for the distress and inconvenience that mistake caused. But I don’t think it 
would be fair to tell them to waive the charges that remain on the account. They were always 
payable in line with the terms of the credit agreement Mr B entered into with Creation. 
 
I’ve reviewed payments made to the account and I can’t see that Creation have made any 
errors when calculating the amount they still say is outstanding. 
 
I can understand that Creation’s error will have created some distress and inconvenience for 
Mr B. He’s explained that Creation have been slow to respond to his complaint and that he’s 
had sleepless nights at the thought of the accrued debt. In the circumstances, however, I 
think £150 is reasonable compensation and I’m not asking Creation to take any further 
action. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2024. 
  
 
Phillip McMahon 
Ombudsman 
 
