DRN-3498331
The complaint
Miss H complains that she was unable to access her online account for a finance agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”)
What happened
In June 2020 Miss H purchased a carpet from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with CCF.
When Miss H tried to log on to her online account, she found that her password wouldn’t 
work. She contacted CCF several times, but the issue wasn’t resolved.
Miss H raised a complaint with CCF. CCF acknowledged that there was an issue with the 
Online Account Manager (OAM) but said there was currently no fix for the issue. CCF 
advised Miss H to contact the Customer Service Department for any queries relating to her 
account.
Miss H brought her complaint to this service. She’s since paid off the account in full but feels 
that she should be compensated for the time she’s spent contacting CCF to try and resolve 
the issue.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said that Miss H’s ability to make monthly 
repayments hadn’t been affected by not being able to access her online account. She also 
said that Miss H had the option to contact the Customer Service Department if she had any 
queries relating to her account. The investigator acknowledged that Miss H had been caused 
some inconvenience but said that the compensation already paid by CCF was fair and 
reasonable.
Miss H didn’t agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at Miss H’s finance agreement. This shows that a direct debit was set up for Miss 
H’s monthly repayments and that she made repayments without missing any for the duration 
of the agreement.
CCF don’t dispute that Miss H was unable to access her online account. It explained to Miss 
H that there was a known issue for which no fix was currently available and provided her 
with an alternative option for contacting them if she had any queries regarding her account.
Miss H has said she didn’t have access to her online account for around two years. She’s 
said that she called CCF several times and was promised calls back but instead they wrote 
to her and said they couldn’t help. 
I’ve thought about how not being able to access her online account has impacted Miss H. I 
appreciate that not being able to access her account has caused Miss H frustration and 
inconvenience. I also appreciate that Miss H spent time contacting CCF about the issue. 
However, based on what I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that Miss H’s ability to make her 
monthly repayments was impacted. 
Miss H has told this service that if she’d had access to her online account she would’ve paid 
off the loan sooner. However, I think Miss H could have contacted the Customer Service 
Department if she’d wanted to make additional payments or settle the account early. 
I’ve already said that I appreciate that Miss H has spent a lot of time trying to resolve this 
issue. So, I’ve thought about whether CCF has done enough to compensate Miss H for the 
inconvenience. CCF has already paid compensation totalling £200 to Miss H since she first 
raised her complaint. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think the compensation already paid to Miss H in 
respect of her lack of online access is fair and reasonable, and in line with what this service 
would award. Because of this, I won’t be asking CCF to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
