DRN-3771249
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t provide him with clear 
information about his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) special offer date. Because of this, Mr D 
missed the BNPL end date and was charged interest under the agreement.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr D purchased goods from a retailer and entered into a BNPL agreement with 
Creation.
Mr D selected paperless statements at the point of sale. He received emails which told him 
that his payment date was 1 March 2021. Because of this, Mr D assumed that he had to pay 
the full cash price of the goods by this date.
Mr D was charged interest before this date. He raised a complaint with Creation. In 
response, Creation said the BNPL special offer date was 16 February 2021, and that the 
payment due date shown as 1 March 2021 was the scheduled payment date for the direct 
debit.
Mr D felt that this was misleading. He told Creation that he was prepared to settle the 
account immediately but says that the long drawn out complaints procedure meant he was 
charged further interest.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She 
said that the email sent by Creation to Mr D made it clear that the payment due date and the 
BNPL date were two different dates. The investigator didn’t think that the information 
provided by Creation was misleading. In relation to the length of time it took to respond to Mr 
D’s complaint, the investigator said Creation had provided its response within the prescribed 
time limit.
Mr D didn’t agree. He said the emails he’d received from Creation were misleading.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the copy of the email sent to Mr D by Creation dated 12 November 2020. This 
states that the payment due date is the date when the first direct debit payment will be due. 
The email goes on to say that the BNPL date would have been provide at the point of sale, 
and that details of the BNPL end date are also available on the online statements.
I’ve thought about whether the email was misleading. On balance, I don’t think it was. I’m 
satisfied that the email makes it clear that the BNPL end date and the payment due date 
were clearly stated to be two different dates. I’m also satisfied that the email provided 
sufficient information to enable Mr D to check the BNPL date on his online statement.
I’ve also looked at the statements which were available for Mr D to view on his online 
account. These statements set out the BNPL end date.
I appreciate that Mr D found the emails confusing. However, I don’t think the emails were 
deliberately misleading. I’m satisfied that Mr D was given clear information about the BNPL 
end date.
I’ve taken into account what Mr D has said about the complaints procedure being drawn out. 
He’s said that the delay caused him to incur additional interest. I’ve thought about this, but I 
can see that Creation responded to Mr D’s complaint within the relevant timescales. So I’m 
unable to say that Creation has treated Mr D unfairly here.
I understand that this isn’t the outcome Mr D hoped for. However, based on what I’ve seen, 
and for the reasons I’ve given I’m unable to say that Creation provided misleading 
information to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
