DRN-3063052
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in February 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr A into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation offered to settle Mr A’s claim (without accepting liability), and offered to refund him, 
with interest, in line with our service’s usual approach in such cases. It also offered him 
another £100 for his trouble. However, Mr A said that he had paid a deposit of £2,250, and 
that Creation’s offer did not take this into account. He asked that this be added to the refund.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He upheld this complaint and 
recommended that the deposit be added to Creation’s offer.
Creation accepted that decision in principle, and just asked for evidence that the deposit had 
indeed been paid, since it had no record of any deposit and it wasn’t mentioned in the loan 
documentation. But by the time Creation responded, this case had already been referred for 
an ombudsman’s decision, because the investigator had not heard from them.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen clear evidence that Mr A did pay a deposit of £2,250. I shared this evidence with 
Creation, but Creation did not reply by the deadline I had set. This is probably just because 
they are very busy, but I think it would be better if I issued a decision now instead of waiting 
any longer.
I have seen an invoice from the installer to Mr A, dated 10 March 2018, for £10,850.01. It is 
marked “paid in full with thanks.” The loan agreement, dated 26 February 2018, states that 
the amount of credit provided is £8,600; the difference between those two figures is 
£2,250.01. And I have seen a bank statement with Mr A’s name on it, showing that on 27 
February 2018 he paid £2,250 to the installer. So I am satisfied that he did pay a deposit of 
£2,250, and that he would not have done so if the panels had not been mis-sold.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by paying Mr A an amount 
equal to the deposit of £2,250, with interest on this amount at 8% a year, from 27 February 
2018 to the date of settlement.
Creation should also recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings 
and income to Mr A from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan 
has ended.
Creation have already performed this calculation (as set out in its final response letter dated 
18 January 2021). This shows that Mr A has been paying more than he should have, so 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly by restructuring the loan. They should 
recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral 
over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
In its offer, Creation said it would not pay interest beyond 13 March 2021, which I think 
would have been reasonable but for the fact that the deposit was not included in the offer. 
So I think that the interest on the overpayments should be paid up to the date of settlement 
as well.
I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
I also direct that Creation must pay Mr A the £100 it has offered him as compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
