DRN-2606183
The complaint
Mr S complains that a carpet that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in August 2017 to pay for some carpet. The cost of the carpet was 
£1,099.17 and he agreed to make 48 monthly loan repayments of £22.89 to Creation 
Consumer Finance. The loan was interest free.
He also signed the supplier’s order form for the carpet which also dealt with the 
arrangements for the fitting of the carpet – Mr S was to pay £203 directly to the fitter for the 
fitting of the carpet and was providing his own underlay and grippers which would be fitted 
by the fitter for an additional payment of £25.
The carpet was fitted in September 2017 but Mr S says that the carpet was losing pile in the 
hallway, it had been cut short in several places in every room and needed stretching, the 
grippers fitted had not been placed close enough to the edge of the skirting or fixed down 
correctly in the living room, there was a hole in the hallway carpet and blood on the carpet 
on the upstairs landing, and every room’s skirting board had been damaged when the carpet 
had been cut to size. He complained to the supplier in December 2017.
It arranged for the carpet to be inspected in November 2018. The inspection report said: 
“Losing tufts to kitchen. Gaps around all edges due to grippers not close enough to skirting 
for the whole job … Carpet is lifting at edges and doorway. All skirtings have knife marks”. 
The supplier then wrote to Mr S and said: “Now we have received the report and findings we 
can confirm that the carpet will need to be rectified by a fitter. As the carpet was fitted in 
2014 this is now out of the 12 month fitting warranty provided by your fitter you can contact 
the original fitter [name and number provided] for a quote to rectify the issue or you are 
welcome to seek the assistance of a local fitter”. 
It later said that the warranty period for the carpet had expired and that that the warranty had 
been invalidated because Mr S had supplied his own underlay and grippers. A claim was 
then made in July 2019 to Creation Consumer Finance under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 – but it said that it wasn’t liable under section 75 as the carpet was fitted by 
a third party and not by the supplier. 
Our investigator then considered Mr S’s complaint but he didn’t recommend that it should be 
upheld. He said that: the fitting of the carpet wasn’t part of the financial agreement so issues 
with the fitting of the carpet couldn’t be considered against Creation Consumer Finance; 
although the warranty wasn’t discussed the choice to go with different grippers was Mr S’s 
and he didn’t consider that the warranty had been misrepresented to him; and although he 
thought it likely that Mr S had been told that the warranty wouldn’t be affected by his grippers 
and underlay, he didn’t think that Creation Consumer Finance was liable to fix or replace the 
carpet as the evidence didn’t suggest that the quality issues are just down to how the carpet 
was made rather than how it was fitted.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the pile 
of the carpet is faulty and that it wouldn’t be damaged by the fitter. He’s provided photos of 
the carpet and says that this outcome isn’t fair or reasonable.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mr S paid for the carpet using credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance;

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

the breach of contract about which Mr S is complaining is that the carpet isn’t of 
satisfactory quality – so to be able to uphold his complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance, I must be satisfied that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to his claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr S’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mr S has also complained about the fitting of the carpet – but I consider it to be clear 
from the supplier’s order form and the fixed sum loan agreement that Mr S paid the 
fitter directly for the fitting of the carpet and that the fitting wasn’t financed under the 
loan agreement;

I don’t consider that Mr S used credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
for the fitting and I don’t consider that it is liable to him for any issues arising from the 
fitting of the carpet;

the supplier arranged for the carpet to be inspected in November 2018 and the 
inspection identified a number of issue with the fitting of the carpet – but didn’t 
identify a fault with the carpet;

Mr S has described his issues with the carpet and has provided photos showing 
those issues – but he’s provided no other evidence to show that there’s a 
manufacturing defect with the carpet or that it was faulty when it was supplied to him;

I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence in these circumstances to show that 
the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S – and I consider 
it to be more likely than not that the issues with the carpet were either caused when it 
was being fitted or as a result of the way that it was fitted;

I also consider that the supplier hasn’t responded to Mr S’s complaint as well as it 
should have done – including its statement that the carpet was fitted in 2014 and its 
claims that the warranty period had expired and that the warranty had been 
invalidated – but Creation Consumer Finance isn’t liable under section 75 for such 
issues with the supplier’s response to his claim and I’m unable to require it to take 
any action about those issues; and

I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that he’s had with the carpet – and the other 
issues that he’s described – but I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Creation Consumer Finance to: arrange and pay for the carpet to be repaired 
or replaced; to end the fixed sum loan agreement; to refund to Mr S any of the 
monthly loan repayments that he’s made to it; to pay him any other compensation; or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr S’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
