 
 
DRN-4804667 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss D is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) was of an unsatisfactory quality. 
 
When I refer to what Miss D has said and what Creation have said, it should also be taken to 
include things said on their behalf. 
 
What happened 
On 18 July 2022 Miss D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation. The retail price of the car was £48,995. Miss D was given a part exchange 
allowance of £10,000, of this £1,935 was used to settle outstanding finance and the 
remainder as a deposit. Miss D then had to pay 47 monthly payments of £683.29 with a final 
option to purchase payment of £16,649. At the time of supply the car was a year old and had 
travelled 5,200 miles.     
 
Miss D is complaining that in October 2022 the car unexpectedly cut out whilst driving late at 
night. The car was recovered to the supplying garage where an issue with the alternator was 
diagnosed. As part of the evidence I have reviewed there are a number of work cards that 
show the car has been seen by the garage on several occasions. The work card for 7 
November 2022 was headed job card and the others headed “repeat repair quality check”. 
The work cards supplied as evidence are as follows: 
 
7 November 2022 car recovered, and investigation work carried out by the garage. 
 
7 November 2023 to 6 December 2023 including reading and clearing fault codes, circuit 
voltage below threshold, auxiliary belt replaced and coolant pump belt renewed. 
 
8 January 2024 to 9 January 2024 airbag light on dashboard, passenger airbag deployment 
fault found. Loose connections found and repaired. 
 
8 January 2024 to 10 January 2024 engine management light on and confirmed to be an 
issue with glow plug voltage codes. The codes were cleared, and the fault reappeared on a 
test drive. The PCM had an internal fault and was replaced. 
 
9 January 2024 confirmed low battery message and due to failure, a new battery was 
required. 
 
8 February 2024 to 14 February 2024 investigate engine management light being on an 
several fault codes recorded. These relate to plugs, circuits and failure to start.   
 
In late 2023 Miss D contacted Creation to explain that due to the continuing faults with the 
car she wished to reject the car. She was advised to email to that effect, which she did on 20 
December 2023. On 27 December Creation requested that Miss D provide them with an 
independent inspection report due to the length of time between supply and her contacting 
them. 
 
 
 
On 22 January 2024 an inspection was undertaken by an independent automotive expert. 
The expert’s report that I have seen includes references to a timeline of issues from 21 
October 2022 through to the end of 2023. It also references documents (emails and warranty 
invoices) that highlight on going issues with the car. Whilst not able to replicate the faults 
that Miss D experienced, the vehicle failed again shortly after being returned to her. The 
expert did contact the garage and as a result of that contact one of their conclusions was 
“we can confirm that the vehicle is currently out of service and requires additional support 
from the manufacturer, it is clear from the date of purchase that the car has continuously 
failed to meet expectations.” The report states that the car had travelled 8,900 miles 
between supply and the inspection. 
 
On 16 February 2024 Creation wrote to Miss D informing her that they were not able to 
respond to her complaint in the required time frame so she could complain to us, should she 
wish to do so. Which she did on 19 February 2024. 
 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They believed that there was fault with the car based 
on the evidence supplied. Creation had said in their submission to us that because of the 
time that had elapsed from supply, Miss D had to provide evidence that the fault was there 
on supply. Our investigator felt that it was unfair to ask Miss D to provide more evidence and 
they had sufficient evidence to show that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. They felt that the first failure as shown by the invoice dated 7 November 2022 was 
within six months and the car had been experiencing similar problems since. As Miss D had 
given the supplying garage several attempts to repair, she was able to reject the car. This 
was in part due to the relatively new age and low mileage of the car on supply. Taking into 
account the price paid, the usage that Miss D had from the car and any distress in upholding 
the complaint they directed Creation to: 
 
• 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay 
• 
Collect the car with nothing further to pay by Miss D 
• 
Refund Miss D her part exchange contribution of £8,064.16 
• 
Refund Miss D 20% of payments from 7 November 2022 
• 
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refund amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement 
• 
Pay a further amount of £250 for any distress caused due to the faulty car 
 
 Creation challenged the investigators decision due to: 
 
• 
Conflicting statements within the independent expert’s report 
• 
The length of time between when the issue first arose and subsequent complaints 
• 
The second issue in 2023 being down to corroded wires, which is a usage issue 
rather than an inherent fault   
 
Our investigator did not agree with the points Creation raised and stood by their decision to 
uphold the complaint. 
 
Because Creation didn’t agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  
 
 
 
Miss D was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means we are able to investigate complaints about it.   
 
Before I explain why I’ve reached my decision, I think it’s important for me to set out exactly 
what I’ve been able to consider here, and how.   
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory”. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle’s history.  
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability. Where goods are second hand, as in this case, due regard must be 
had to the price, age and any description applied to the car.    
 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss D took possession of it, or that the car wasn’t 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and 
reasonable to ask Creation to put this right. 
 
As stated earlier the age, mileage and price of any vehicle has to be taken into account 
when deciding what is satisfactory quality. Cars also have an element of fair wear and tear 
that needs to be taken into account when coming to any decision.   
 
Miss D was supplied with a car that was just over one year old and had travelled 5,200 
miles. Whilst the car is second-hand and this needs to be considered; the age and mileage 
at the time of supply means that Miss D can expect a smaller amount of wear and tear, than 
for an older second-hand car. So the relative newness of the car needs to be considered as 
part of my decision. 
 
On the balance of probabilities, with the evidence presented to me, I do find that there is an 
inherent fault with the car. The number of times the car has been seen by the garage and 
had to be recovered; along with the independent expert’s report is sufficient to persuade me 
of this fact.  
 
The latest issues with the car occurred in early 2024, some 18 months and 8,900 miles after 
being supplied the vehicle. Miss D states that the issues first occurred in October 2022 and 
this is supported by a job card dated 7 November 2022, just over three months after supply.  
Whilst Creation state that there is no indication that there is a connection between the later 
faults and those found in November 2022, I have to consider the car as a whole and what is 
fair in the circumstances. Looking at the work cards supplied as evidence they show a 
variety of faults as follows: 
 
7 November 2022 car recovered, and investigation work carried out by the garage. 
 
7 November 2023 to 6 December 2023 including reading and clearing fault codes, circuit 
voltage below threshold auxiliary belt replaced and coolant pump belt renewed. 
 
8 January 2024 to 9 January 2024 airbag light on dashboard, passenger airbag deployment 
fault found. Loose connections found and repaired. 
 
 
 
8 January 2024 to 10 January 2024 engine management light on and confirmed to be an 
issue with glow plug voltage codes. The codes were cleared, and the fault reappeared on a 
test drive. The PCM had an internal fault and was replaced. 
 
9 January 2024 confirmed low battery message and due to failure, a new battery was 
required. 
 
8 February 2024 to 14 February 2024 investigate engine management light being on an 
several fault codes recorded. These relate to plugs, circuits and failure to start.   
  
While not containing detailed analysis of the faults they do contain sufficient information to 
highlight that they are all related to electrical faults with the vehicle. Creation also stated in 
their submission to the investigator that they felt the second issue that occurred in 2023 was 
due to corroded wires, making it a usage issue. Creation stated in their submission they 
hadn’t seen the full texts of the reports from the garage, so this is supposition on their behalf. 
The job card 7 November 2023 through to 6 December 2023 does not contain any reference 
to corrosion. It does state at one point “Checked wheel arch connections C1DC12B and 
C11P23, found secure and clean.” 
 
The independent expert’s inspection is informative, as is the number of job cards supplied. 
Whilst the expert was unable to replicate the fault it is clearly an intermittent fault, as can be 
shown by the car failing within 100miles of it being returned to Miss D. The independent 
expert had the consumer’s experience and information from the servicing garage to help 
inform their conclusion. 
 
Second-hand cars are also required to be durable, taking into account the age and mileage 
of the car.  The car was a year old and had only travelled 5,200 miles at the time of supply, 
so is relatively new. Taking all evidence into account I find that there is an inherent fault with 
the car and that fault was first discovered in November 2022 and continued intermittently 
after this. As this is within the first six months after supply the presumption under the CRA is 
that the fault was present at the time of supply.  I find nothing that Creation has stated or 
provided in evidence compelling enough to change this presumption. I therefore uphold Miss 
D’s complaint.   
 
In upholding Miss D’s complaint, I need to consider what is the right thing for the business to 
do to put things right. Miss D has had use of the car and any payment returned to her needs 
to reflect this usage. This needs to reflect both impaired usage associated with the faults and 
any loss of use where Miss D did not have access to either her car or a courtesy car. I note 
that Miss D kept the vehicle off the road from March 2024 to July 2024 when she started to 
use the car again, as she had no access to another car. As the car has been in a usable 
state since July 2024 it is difficult to conclude that the car would not have been usable from 
March to July 2024. In assessing both loss of use and impaired usage I believe that a 20% 
refund of the monthly payments Mrs D has made, as set out by the investigator in their 
decision, does represent a fair means of resolution that balances the use she has had 
against her loss. 
 
Because Creation have supplied a car that was of unsatisfactory quality, I have to consider 
the impact of the inconvenience and distress to her because of this. I feel in addition to 
rejecting the car and refunding payments as outlined below a payment of £250 is fair for this 
additional distress caused by the car breaking down and the inconvenience of numerous 
trips to the dealer. 
  
 
 
Putting things right 
The CRA says that Miss D may reject goods where one attempt at repair has been 
attempted already. There have been several attempts by the dealer to repair the car but 
these happened before Miss D referred her complaint to Creation.  Given these attempts did 
not address the underlying issue and given the intermittent nature of the problem in this case 
there is no guarantee that allowing Creation an attempt at repair would fix this. Indeed it 
seems likely that Creation would have instructed the dealer to look at the car and its already 
apparent that they have been unable to get to the bottom of the problem. So, all things 
considered I find the fairest thing to do in this case is to allow Miss D to reject the car.  In 
upholding the complaint, I direct Creation to:  
 
• 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay by Miss D 
• 
Collect the car with nothing further to pay by Miss D 
• 
Refund Miss D her part exchange contribution of £8,064.16 
• 
Refund Miss D 20% of her monthly repayments from 7 November 2022 until the 
date of settlement 
• 
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refund amounts from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement 
• 
Pay a further amount of £250 for any distress caused due to the faulty car 
     
My final decision 
My decision is that I do uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Limited.  
In order to settle this case they are directed to follow the redress above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2025. 
  
 
Leon Livermore 
Ombudsman 
 
