DRN-3160402
The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by Citizens Advice, complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
didn’t tell him he owed money and that it notified credit reference agencies of his subsequent 
arrears.
What happened
I have had a limited response from Creation and the information is not as detailed as I would 
expect. However, from what I have seen it appears Mr S had a loan agreement with Creation 
for the purchase of furniture from a retailer I will call R. Mr S disputed multiple parts of it and 
this resulted in a sofa being returned. Mr S continued to pay £20 per month, but he says he 
was told he was in credit and need make no further payments. Subsequently Creation 
passed the outstanding sum to a debt collection agency and notified the credit reference 
agencies.
Creation in its final response letter says that during a call in October 2017 Mr S was told that 
his account was in credit, but there was a remaining balance of £294.20. It says he was 
asked if he wished to set up a direct debit but declined to do so as he was saving for 
Christmas. It says he agreed to call after Christmas to pay the balance but failed to do so.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didn’t recommended it be upheld. He concluded the balance was due and 
it would be inappropriate for it to be written off. He also presumed that as the debt had been 
transferred to a debt collections agency that Mr S would have been told about this. Mr S 
didn’t agree. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said Mr S’s complaint centred on a conversation he had with Creation in late 2017. We had 
asked for a copy of the call recording along with other relevant documents, but Creation had 
not been able to supply it. I asked for further details from Creation about the account but I 
received a limited response.
I had seen Creation’s version of what was said in that call, but I couldn’t say for certain that it 
was made clear to Mr S that he owed an outstanding sum. Having considered the evidence 
provided to this service I was satisfied that at the very least Mr S was unclear as to what he 
owed as a result of that conversation. I said it may be that Creation had sent him subsequent 
letters regarding the debt but given it hasn’t responded to request for information I couldn’t 
safely conclude that it had done so. The only letter I had seen was the final response letter 
to Mr S’s complaint.
In the circumstances Creation hadn’t persuaded me that Mr S was made aware of his debt 
with sufficient clarity and I didn’t consider it fair that his credit rating had been affected. On 
the balance of probabilities, I considered it likely that Mr S did owe £294.20 and it would be 
fair for Creation to be paid that sum. However, due to the lack of clarity I considered it 
unreasonable for Mr S’s credit file to be affected.
I thought Creation should recover the debt from the collection agency and make 
arrangements with Mr S to pay the sum due. It should also arrange for all adverse entries 
relating to this debt to be removed from his credit files. I considered it should also pay him 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
I said that if Creation did provide additional evidence this may result in me changing my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have not heard from Mr S or Citizens Advice. Creation said it had sent a copy of a letter in 
relation to a separate complaint which it thought I should see. It sent me a copy of the final 
response letter which I had seen previously. This was issued in December 2019.
It also said that it had sent a letter in 2019 which stated how much was owed. I assume this 
means the December letter since no other was attached. It also sent templates of letters it 
says would have been issued about defaulting the debt. The date for the first of these was 
given as 14 April 2020.
This is after Mr S made a complaint and I believed misses the point as set out in my 
provisional decision. I concluded that it had not been made clear to Mr S in 2017 that he 
owed further sums and that failure was the key element of the complaint. I agree it has been 
brought to his attention subsequently, but the complaint was brought to this service in April 
2020 and I cannot say that subsequent letters can be said to have an impact on the earlier 
failure.
As such I consider my provisional decision should stand. I am satisfied that Mr S owes the 
money and it should be paid, but the debt should not affect his credit files. 
Putting things right
 Creation should remove any adverse entries it place on Mr S’s credit file relating to this debt 
and pay him compensation. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should remove all adverse entries 
on Mr S’s credit file relating to this debt and engage with him to arrange payment of the sum 
due of £294.20. It should also pay him £100 compensation for the distress this longstanding 
issue has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
