DRN-3780449
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly reported a loan as active on
his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M had an account with Creation and settled the outstanding balance in April 2017. Mr M 
says he first contacted Creation to ensure his account was reported as settled and closed 
in 2019. The account continued to be reported as active on Mr M’s credit file despite his 
requests.
In June 2020 Creation sent Mr M an email that confirmed the account had closed in April 
2019 and that the status should be reflected on his credit file.
Mr M went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They initially upheld Mr M’s complaint and asked Creation to ensure his credit file 
accurately reflected the status of his account and pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Creation and Mr M both agreed, but he later found the account was 
still being reported as active on his credit file.
Creation later explained that whilst Mr M had cleared the balance in 2017 the account 
remained open and available for him to use. The investigator issued another set of findings 
and asked Creation to take steps to ensure the account was reflected as closed and settled 
on Mr M’s credit file. They also asked Creation to pay another £100, taking the total award 
to £200.
Mr M checked his credit file and said Creation had failed to correctly update it. Mr M asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve been brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree about the 
overall timeline. Mr M’s told us he’s been asking Creation to fix the errors on his credit file 
since 2019. And he’s forwarded emails with Creation from June 2020 which specifically say 
his account was closed in April 2019 and the credit reference agencies updated. So I can 
understand Mr M’s frustration that despite repeated attempts to get Creation to correct the 
account information on his credit file, it failed to do so.
Creation told Mr M his account had been closed. But more recently, it’s explained to us that 
the account remained open and available for use. I’m satisfied Mr M has made his wish to 
ensure the account is closed very clear over a period of around three years. And I agree 
with Mr M that the way his requests have been handled has caused him a considerable 
level of inconvenience over a sustained period.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr M’s complaint. Creation says Mr M’s account is 
now closed on its systems and that’s reflected on his credit file. Mr M has advised he’s yet 
to see evidence the amendments have been made. There’s often some lag in updating 
credit reference agencies. But I intend to tell Creation to ensure it correctly updates Mr M’s 
credit file as part of my final decision. If Mr M accepts, that will become legally binding on 
Creation. I hope that brings closure to the matter.
I know our investigator increased the award to £200 but I’m not persuaded that reflects 
the longstanding nature of Mr M’s requests. And I don’t think it reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M either. So I also intend to tell Creation to pay 
Mr M a total of £400 for the dis view, that’s a fairer way to resolve Mr M’s complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr M responded and said he wanted the account 
to be noted as settled and closed on his credit file. Mr M also said he didn’t agree that £400 
was fair compensation and wanted a fine to be imposed on Creation. 
Creation didn’t give us new information to consider.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M responded to say he wanted Creation to amend his credit file to reflect the account as 
closed and settled. As I noted in the provisional decision, if Mr M accepts, Creation will 
amend his credit file to show the account as closed and settled from April 2017. 
Mr M’s told us he doesn’t think the compensation of £400 is fair. I understand the issue has 
been ongoing for a long time and agree that Creation missed opportunities to resolve the 
situation. I’d like to assure Mr M I’ve read and considered everything he’s told us, including 
how the issues raised impacted him. Having done so again, I remain of the view that £400 
fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M. I’m sorry to disappoint Mr M but I 
haven’t been persuaded to increase the level of compensation awarded. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn’t the industry regulator (that’s the Financial Conduct 
Authority) and he have no powers to fine or punish a business. Our awards focus on how to 
fairly resolve a complaint for the consumer. In this case, I remain of the view that updating 
Mr M’s credit file and paying him £400 is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
-
Ensure Mr M’s credit file is updated to show his account was settled and closed in
April 2017
-
Pay Mr M a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
