DRN-4105757
The complaint
Ms R has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation’s 
(‘Creation’) response to a claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to 
account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
In October 2013, Ms R bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“G” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
In March 2022, Ms R complained to Creation, she said that she was told by G that the 
system would pay for itself through electricity savings and Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) income. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss as a result. Ms R also 
believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
her and Creation. 
Creation responded to say that Ms R had brought her claim more than six years after the 
cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’), so it had no liability. Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Ms R referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Ms R’s complaint, and said that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms R and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Ms R keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Ms R had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. 
Neither Creation nor Ms R responded to our Investigator’s assessment. So, I’ve been asked 
to make a decision on the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms R’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms R’s s.75 claim 
on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Ms R 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 10 June 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Ms R. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 10 June 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 8 November 2013. Ms R brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 11 March 2022. That is more than six years after she purchased the system. 
Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 
claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms R. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Ms R has said that she was told by G’s representative that the system would pay for itself 
through electricity savings and Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) income. Ms R has said she had existing 
interest in purchasing solar panels before G contacted her. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Ms R to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. She was given 
a quote showing the estimated benefits of the system, which gave a first-year benefit of 
£453, a lifetime benefit of £22,530.55, and said the payback time would be 10 years. 
I’m also mindful that the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC), of which G was a 
member at the time, found that in 2013, prior to Ms R’s purchase, G was in breach of parts 
5.2 and 5.3 of the RECC. And those compliance issues were not fully resolved to RECC’s 
satisfaction until 2015. These parts of the RECC relate to the behaviour of sales 
representatives and the provision of performance information and predictions. Key here is 
that sales representatives should not give false or misleading information to consumers, and 
that any payback periods should take into account the monthly repayments and the full 
amount payable where credit is used for the purchase. 
In this case, based on the calculations G used to arrive at its quote, I can see that the 
system would not pay for itself until around 15 years after installation. So, it is clear that the 
payback time quoted by G was misleading and in breach of the RECC requirements, in that 
it did not take into account the full amount that Ms R had agreed to pay through the credit 
agreement. G’s website at the time (available through the Internet Archive) also referred to 
solar panels as paying for themselves. This adds weight to Ms R’s recollection of what she 
was told. 
So, I find what Ms R’s said is plausible and persuasive. I think the available evidence 
supports her testimony that the potential benefits were likely discussed and were a key 
reason she purchased the system. The written quote provided at the time of sale gave a 
false and misleading impression of how long it would take before the benefits of the system 
covered Ms R’s full cost of purchasing it. That misleading impression is the one that Ms R 
was left with, and this had a significant influence over her decision to go ahead with the 
purchase.  
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that the system paid for itself within the loan 
term, and Creation has not responded to Ms R’s allegations during the course of this 
complaint. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms R was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Ms R went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms R’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Ms R in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Ms R and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan that 
Ms R would otherwise not have taken out.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms R and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Ms R a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Ms R’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Ms R received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so Ms R pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Ms R received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Ms R will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Ms R’s complaint caused Ms R 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Ms R £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms R’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Ms R has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Ms R’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the end of the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Ms R should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Ms R 

Pay Ms R an additional £100 compensation
*Where Ms R has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to complete the calculation above using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R how much it’s deducted. It should 
also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
