DRN-2800290
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not refund the interest he’s paid on 
a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) finance agreement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H bought a television using a finance agreement with Creation. The 
agreement required him to pay £799 by 28 August 2020 (the “special offer date”) if he didn’t 
want to pay interest; or monthly payments after this date, which included an interest charge.
In August, Mr H contacted Creation to ask to extend the interest free period. Creation agreed 
to move the special offer date to 28 November 2020.
Mr H says he received an email from Creation which told him the start date was 
28 December 2020. He complains that Creation didn’t make it clear what date he had to 
make the payment by, and he wants it to refund the interest he’s paid.
Creation accepted Mr H had confused the special offer date with the first direct debit date. 
But said it was clear what each of these dates meant.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld as she couldn’t 
conclude that Creation had done anything wrong.
Mr H didn’t agree. He said, in summary, that:

His personal circumstances have not been considered. It had been a very stressful time 
for him due to caring for a family member who had fallen ill.

Creation should have done more to make him aware of the due payment date.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
The agreement makes it clear that interest is charged if payment is not made in full by the 
end of the BNPL period. I find that interest has been charged in line with these terms.
Creation agreed to extend the original special offer date of 28 August 2020 by three months. 
This meant the BNPL period was extended until 28 November 2020. Mr H needed to pay by 
that date to ensure he would not be charged interest.
Mr H says the email he was sent referred to 28 December 2020. Although there was a link to 
his account, he didn’t click on it. The date in the email was the start date for the monthly 
direct debit payments. I think this was made reasonably clear.
If Mr H had accessed his account online, he would have received more information about his 
account.
His monthly statements reflected the new special offer date. They said:
“..the Buy Now Pay Later period for your [television] is due to end 28/11/2020. If you pay the 
full amount of £799.00 by this date, you will not pay any interest on this purchase. After the 
Buy Now Pay Later period has ended your payment amount for this purchase will be £49.17 
per month starting on 28/12/2020.”
So I think Creation made it reasonably clear of when Mr H had to pay the full amount if he 
didn’t want to pay interest – on his statements and on his online account. I don’t find there 
was any obligation on Creation to write to Mr H separately to set out the various dates.
I’m not unsympathetic to the circumstances Mr H has told he was experiencing at the time. 
It’s clearly been quite stressful for him. But, even taking into account that he may not have 
been as focussed on financial matters, I think Creation did enough to make the revised 
payment dates clear.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
