DRN-2799011
The complaint
Mr A complains about the interest he’s been charged under an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr A purchased a fridge from a retailer and entered into a buy now pay later 
(BNPL) agreement with creation. The terms of the BNPL were that if the cash price was paid 
by 25 October 2019, no interest would be charged.
Mr A experienced a fault with the fridge in August 2019. The retailer replaced the fridge in 
October 2019 with a fridge which cost £500 less than the original fridge.
The retailer told Mr A that it wasn’t able to amend the finance agreement. Mr A says the 
retailer advised him not to make payment until this could be resolved.
The retailer refunded £500 to the agreement on 8 January 2020. However, by this time the 
BNPL period had ended and because Mr A hadn’t made payment, interest had accrued, and 
late payments had been recorded on his credit file.
Mr A complained to Creation. He was unhappy that he’d been charged interest because the 
fridge had broken in the BNPL period and it had taken the retailer several months to sort 
things out. In response, Creation said it had no knowledge of the fault with the fridge but that 
it had heard from the retailer in November 2019 when the retailer was trying to process a 
reduction in price but due to technical difficulties experienced by the retailer the credit hadn’t 
been applied to the agreement.
Creation offered two options to Mr A, either pay the cash price in full immediately and 
interest would be removed, or it would remove the interest added so far and Mr A could start 
paying monthly with interest being charged going forward.
Mr A wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants the interest 
waived and his credit file amended.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said he didn’t think Creation had done 
anything wrong because it was Mr A who hadn’t made his payments on time and interest 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr A didn’t agree. He said he’d been told by both the retailer and Creation not to make any 
payments until the credit to the account had been resolved. He didn’t think it was fair that 
he’d been charged interest.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the finance agreement. This says that interest will be charged on the balance 
at 24.9% per year if the cash price isn’t paid in full by the end of the BNPL period.
The date of the transaction was 25 April 2019 and the BNPL period expired on 25 October 
2019. I’ve looked at the history of the account and I can see that Mr A didn’t make any 
payments before the expiry of the BNPL period. Interest then became applicable to the 
account from the date of the transaction. Looking at the terms and conditions, I’m unable to 
say that Creation has done anything wrong by adding interest to the account.
Mr A is unhappy that his credit file has been affected. When a payment is missed, a lender is 
allowed to record this as a late payment on a credit file. Mr A missed more than one 
payment following the end of the BNPL period. I’m unable to say that Creation did anything 
wrong by recording late payments on Mr A’s credit file.
I understand that Mr A doesn’t think he’s been treated fairly. He’s said that reasons he didn’t 
make any payments on the account was because both the retailer and Creation advised him 
not to. I haven’t been able to listen to any of the calls between Mr A and the retailer so I can’t 
be certain of what was said. Based on what I’ve seen, the retailer tried to process the credit 
in October/November 2019 but for technical reasons the credit did t complete and it wasn’t 
until January 2020 that the agreement was credited. So, I agree with Mr A that it took the 
retailer several months to sort things out. But I haven’t seen anything to suggest that the 
retailer advised Mr A not to make payments.
Nor have I seen anything to suggest that Creation advised Mr A not to make payments. 
Creation has said that it didn’t know anything about the credit until October 2019 when it was 
contacted by the retailer. The BNPL was due to end the following month so I think it’s 
unlikely that Creation would have advised Mr A not to pay.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to say that Creation has acted unfairly. Interest 
has been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Late payments have 
been recorded because Mr A didn’t make payments when he should have done.
I can see that Creation offered Mr A a resolution to his complaint. Looking at what Creation 
offered, I think this was fair and reasonable. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
