 
 
DRN-5273256 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd overcharged him to settle a hire 
purchase agreement early. 
What happened 
In November 2023, Mr H was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. The agreement was for £35,000 to be paid over 59 monthly payments of £725.15 
followed by a final payment of £735.15. 
 
In February 2024, Mr H said he wanted to pay the agreement early and requested a 
settlement figure. Creation said he would need to make a payment of £34,769.69 to settle 
the agreement. Mr H made the payment and settled the agreement but was concerned that 
Creation had overcharged him. He said he’d already made two monthly payments totalling 
around £1,450 – so didn’t understand how the settlement figure was only around £230 less 
than the amount he’d originally borrowed. He asked for a detailed breakdown to show how 
the settlement had been calculated. 
 
Creation said the settlement figure was calculated correctly in line with its normal process. It 
said some of the amounts Mr H had previously paid were allocated to interest accrued, 
which made up a higher proportion of the payments towards the start of the agreement. It 
said it had applied an interest rebate because the agreement was settled early – so Mr H 
paid less overall than he would have done if he’d continued paying monthly. 
 
Mr H referred a complaint to this service. One of our Investigators considered the complaint, 
and was satisfied Creation had done enough to show that it hadn’t overcharged Mr H. Mr H 
didn’t agree. He said the amount he was asked to pay meant he paid around £1,200 on 
interest over a period of three months – which didn’t feel fair. He felt the amount Creation 
had charged was disproportionately high. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. So, it’s been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that Creation overcharged him when he settled his 
agreement. I can understand this – as he settled the agreement after making only two 
payments, so didn’t expect to be required to pay a significant amount for interest. 
 
It’s not the role of this service to calculate Mr H’s settlement or audit the calculations carried 
out by Creation. But I’ve considered whether Creation has demonstrated that it treated Mr H 
fairly when calculating the settlement, and that it did so in line with the relevant rules. 
 
Mr H says the interest he’s been charged feels excessive given that the agreement only ran 
for a full two months. The total interest charged under an agreement isn’t applied equally 
each month. Interest is calculated on the outstanding amount, so the proportion of each 
 
 
payment allocated to interest varies each month and will be higher during the earlier months 
of the agreement when the total balance is at its highest. As the agreement runs its course, 
the total balance outstanding decreases and the proportion of the payments allocated to 
interest reduces. 
 
The terms of the agreement state: 
 
“10 EARLY REPAYMENT 
10.1 You can repay all or part of the amount owed under this agreement at any time. We will 
provide a statement showing how much is required to settle this agreement in full on 
request. (…) 
10.2 (…) the amount you owe us will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid, 
together with any statutory interest rebate, where applicable.” 
 
Creation says the early settlement figure was automatically generated by its system, and 
included a rebate calculated in line with the provisions set out in the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Lenders are required to calculate statutory interest rebates using the rules set out in 
The Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. The calculations lenders are 
required to apply are complex, and this process is typically automated – so it won’t always 
be possible for lenders to provide its calculations in detail. Under these rules, lenders are 
required to base their calculations on a settlement date 28 days after the settlement was 
requested by the customer. In addition, if the credit was originally agreed to be repaid over 
more than a year, the lender may defer the settlement date in its calculations by an 
additional 30 days. 
 
In practice, this means that – if an agreement was originally to be paid over more than a year 
– the settlement figure and interest rebate can take into account interest charged for 58 days 
from the date the settlement was requested. Looking at the amount Creation asked Mr H to 
pay, this appears to be what happened here. Mr H requested the settlement figure a few 
days before the next payment was due – so any settlement calculation would also include 
interest accrued since the previous payment. This may mean the interest rebate applied to 
the settlement was lower than Mr H was expecting – but I don’t think it suggests Creation 
made an error. 
 
As I’ve outlined, the rebate calculation is complex and often automated. I haven’t 
recalculated Mr H’s rebate or checked Creation’s calculations, as that isn’t my role. But I’m 
satisfied the amount Creation has charged Mr H seems broadly in line with what I’d typically 
expect to see, taking the factors I’ve outlined above into account. And I haven’t seen any 
evidence or calculations from Mr H to persuade me that the amount Creation charged is 
incorrect or that it's overcharged him. So, I don’t conclude that Creation has made an error, 
and I don’t require it to do anything further. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr H’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2025. 
  
 
Stephen Billings 
Ombudsman 
 
