 
 
DRN-5331669 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Ms S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t provided the service it should 
have after she experienced issues with a washer-dryer she acquired through her credit 
agreement.  
What happened 
Ms S explained that she acquired a washer-dryer from a retailer in September 2022. This 
was financed through her credit agreement with Creation. She raised a complaint with the 
retailer in January 2024, explaining that the washer-dryer had developed a fault and she had 
received poor service when trying to get a replacement. The retailer investigated the issue 
and said that a replacement washer-dryer was delivered to Ms S on 13 February 2024. It 
accepted the service it provided wasn’t as it should have been and offered to pay her £80 
compensation because of this.   
Ms S didn’t consider that £80 compensation was sufficient. She raised this (as well as some 
other issues) with Creation. As she wasn’t satisfied with the responses she had received 
from the retailer and Creation she referred her complaint to this service. 
Following the referral of Ms S’s complaint, Creation liaised with the retailer and an increased 
offer of £200 compensation was made. Ms S accepted this but there was then an issue 
about who was making the payment and the total amount being paid. Creation said that the 
£200 was being paid by the retailer and this was made up of the £80 compensation that had 
been paid in April 2024, and a further £120. Creation acknowledged that there was some 
miscommunication around this payment and as an apology said it had deducted £40 from 
Ms S’s outstanding balance.  
Our investigator explained that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Creation 
can be held jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation of 
goods/services by the retailer. Because of this, she said that Creation should pay the 
compensation and then it could discuss this separately with the retailer.  
Following further delays, Ms S declined the offer, and our investigator investigated the 
complaint and issued a view. She noted the delays in Ms S receiving a replacement washer-
dryer and the inconvenience and distress that she was caused during this period. She also 
acknowledged the poor service Ms S had received. Taking this all into consideration our 
investigator said that Creation should pay Ms S £400.  
Creation paid Ms S £400 compensation but due to the further delays, Ms S asked for the 
amount of compensation to be increased. She said that she was caused additional stress 
and inconvenience due to the delays and lack of contact. She also said the detriment caused 
to her and her family by Creation was greater than the amount of compensation that had 
been paid. She thought that given the experience she had and as her health conditions 
meant this situation was particularly distressing, she should receive compensation of 
between £750 and £1,500. 
Creation didn’t agree to increase the level of compensation. It said the £400 paid along with 
 
 
the initial compensation from the retailer of £80 was reasonable. 
As a resolution hasn’t been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I am sorry to hear of the experience Ms S has had and I do not underestimate the upset this 
has caused her. This complaint is against Creation. As has previously been explained, under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Creation can in certain circumstances be held 
jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation of goods/services by 
the retailer. In this case, Ms S bought a washer-dryer using her credit agreement with 
Creation. The washer-dryer experienced a fault, and it was in response to this that she 
experienced issues. 
Ms S has provided details of the timing of the issues she experienced. She has said that she 
visited the retailer’s store on 8 December 2023 to arrange for a replacement washer-dryer. 
While Creation can be held liable in certain situations where goods are found to not be of 
satisfactory quality (in this case faulty) I cannot hold it liable for the service provided to Ms S 
by the retailer at this time. I note that the retailer said it paid Ms S £80 in April 2024 to 
apologise for the poor service provided and the inconvenience she had been caused. 
Ms S was provided with a replacement washer-dryer, and this was delivered to her on 13 
February 2024. As Ms S has been provided with a replacement washer-dryer this resolves 
this part of any claim. The outstanding issue is the amount of compensation that is 
reasonable given the issues Ms S has experienced both in regard to the replacement of the 
washer-dryer and subsequently while trying to resolve her complaint.  
Due to the goods being faulty (and subsequent service delays) Ms S was without a working 
washer-dryer for around two months. During this period, she has explained that she had to 
travel to a laundrette in another town and pay the costs of this as well as incur extra costs for 
heating in order to dry clothes at home. Ms S has a disability and has explained that her 
health problems mean she needs access to clean clothes more frequently than might be the 
case for someone else and at times she wasn’t able to go out due to not having clean 
clothing. I have taken all of this into account when considering what level of compensation is 
reasonable. 
Additional to the distress, inconvenience and costs, suffered while she was without a 
washer-dryer, Ms S has said that Creation hasn’t provided the service it should have in 
response to her complaint. She has noted a lack of contact and the delays in compensation 
being paid. I can understand why this has added to the stress of this issue.  
Creation paid Ms S £400 compensation on 18 November 2024. This is additional to the 
compensation paid by the retailer. I understand that Ms S doesn’t think this is enough but in 
this case I find this reasonable. I say this because while Ms S was caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience during the period she was without a washer-dryer, this issue was 
resolved in around two months, and I cannot hold Creation liable for the service she received 
from the retailer during that period.  
Since the issue was raised with Creation, I accept that there have been delays. An offer was 
made to increase the amount of compensation, but it wasn’t clear that this was from the 
retailer, and this caused further delay and confusion. The case was then reviewed by this 
 
 
service and a view issued. Creation accepted the view on 12 November 2024. This was later 
than the requested response date (16 October 2024) but I note that the payment was made 
on 18 November and so I do not find the delay in confirming the acceptance of the view 
significantly delayed the overall payment. Ms S then requested a higher amount of 
compensation and this resulted in further discussions. While I appreciate this extended the 
period in which Ms S had needed to deal with the complaint and the stress due to this, as I 
think the amount paid by Creation in November 2024 was fair, I do not find that I can say it is 
required to pay anything further for this. 
So, while I understand this issue has been upsetting for Ms S, in this case I do not require 
Creation to pay any further compensation (above the £400 already paid and noting the £80 
paid by the retailer) for the issues she experienced. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that by paying Ms S the additional £400 compensation, Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd has done enough to resolve this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2025. 
  
 
Jane Archer 
Ombudsman 
 
