DRN-3568107
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not refund or replace furniture he 
bought using finance from it.
What happened
Mr Y bought a sofa suite from a retailer (‘the supplier’) using a fixed sum loan from Creation. 
However, he is unhappy with the quality. In summary, he says the seats have patches that 
are sinking and discoloured.
The supplier went out of business so Mr Y approached Creation for help under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’). However, it did not uphold this claim based on 
an expert report which concluded the damage to the sofa was caused by misuse rather than 
a manufacturing defect.
Mr Y brought the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into things but felt the 
evidence available pointed to misuse rather than a manufacturing defect as well. Therefore, 
he didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in declining the Section 75 claim.
Mr Y does not agree with this outcome. In summary, he says the furniture has not been 
misused and the expert inspection was done many months after he first complained (due to 
the global pandemic) so his family were using the sofas which has made things worse. He 
says the expert report which Creation arranged is biased and online posts about the furniture 
show it is defective.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr Y to make a ‘like claim’ against Creation for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the furniture. There are certain technical requirements 
that must be in place for a Section 75 claim to be valid and I am satisfied those are met here. 
So I move on to consider whether or not there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (‘CRA’) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is
satisfactory”. To be considered “satisfactory”, the goods would need to meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory – taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods.
Creation obtained an expert report to assess the condition of the sofa. It concluded that the 
problems with the sofa were due to misuse rather than a manufacturing defect. 
I know that Mr Y says the expert report is not independent – however, although it was 
commissioned by Creation I have no reason to believe that it wasn’t carried out in a 
professional manner. It looks reasonably detailed and is backed up by photographic 
evidence to illustrate the points made. I can see that the particular nature of the damage is 
plausibly explained by what the expert has said.
The report, albeit commissioned by Creation is also all the expert evidence I have. This is 
important because I am not a furniture expert myself. I know Mr Y has said the report was 
not carried out immediately – but looking at the nature of the damage and what the expert 
has said is the likely cause of said damage I don’t think the findings are likely to have been 
different had the report been carried out months before. 
I know Mr Y has referred to online forum posts to support his case. But it is difficult, in light of 
the evidence from the expert, to take this general information from other customers and be 
persuaded that it means Mr Y’s sofa has a manufacturing defect.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr Y – but based on the evidence I have I cannot fairly say that 
Creation was acting unreasonably in turning down his Section 75 claim.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman
