DRN-3148536
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in April 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. Mr H (represented by a 
claims management company) asked Creation for a refund in September 2020. When 
Creation did not respond (Creation says this was because it never received the claim letter), 
Mr H brought this complaint to our service, in March 2021.
Mr H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr H £100 for his trouble.
At first, on 27 August 2021, Creation accepted the adjudicator’s opinion. It asked for copies 
of Mr H’s feed-in tariffs (FITs) so that it could calculate how much redress to pay him. The 
adjudicator told Creation that Mr H had never been registered for FITs, allegedly due to an 
error by the installer.
After that, nothing more was heard from Creation until November, when Creation challenged 
our service’s jurisdiction to consider this case. Creation argued that this case had been 
brought too late under the time limits for bringing complaints. The adjudicator did not accept 
this, and so the case has been referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, a complaint normally has to be 
brought within six years of the event being complained about. Alternatively, a complaint may 
be brought later than that if it is brought within three years of when the complainant became 
aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for complaint. 
Creation says that both of these time limits had expired by the time Mr H complained. 
(Whether that was in September 2020 or March 2021 makes no difference.)
However, it is important to be clear about precisely which event is the subject of the 
complaint. Creation has assumed that this is the sale of the credit agreement, which 
happened in April 2014. But I think that this complaint is technically about Creation’s 
handling of Mr H’s claim under section 75, in 2020 and 2021, in line with our service’s well-
established approach in section 75 jurisdiction cases. Accordingly, it follows that Mr H 
brought this complaint well within six years of that event, and that this service does have 
jurisdiction over this complaint.
The basis of Mr H’s claim under section 75 was that he was induced to enter a contract in 
April 2014 by a misrepresentation made by the installer. Section 75 makes Creation jointly 
liable for that misrepresentation, and gives Mr H the same right to bring a claim against 
Creation as he has against the installer. But under the Limitation Act 1980 there is a time 
limit for bringing such a claim, which is six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. In this case, that limitation period expired in April 2020. Normally, I would consider 
it to be fair and reasonable to allow Creation to rely on that limitation period, and to reject a 
section 75 claim on the ground that it has been brought too late, as Mr H’s was.
However, on the facts of this case, I think it is fair and reasonable to treat Creation as having 
waived the limitation period, because in August 2021 it agreed in writing to pay Mr H 
compensation along the lines recommended by our adjudicator in settlement of his 
complaint. So I will hold Creation to that.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr H’s complaint for 
Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar panels over the five year term of the 
loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future 
benefits once the loan has ended.
If the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the five year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr H 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr H accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr H has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
