DRN-3226390
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of a sofa.
What happened
Mrs N purchased a sofa and entered into a finance agreement with Creation. She 
experienced issues with the sofa. The springs gave way and the recliner got stuck.
Mrs N tried to contact the retailer, but it was no longer trading so she complained to 
Creation.
Creation arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. The technician found a manufacturing 
fault with the mechanism in the recliner and said a new one would have to be ordered. 
Mrs N was unhappy about the time it had taken to arrange the inspection. She asked 
Creation if she could reject the sofa and end the agreement.
Creation said it had arranged a repair to resolve the complaint. It declined the rejection 
request.
Mrs N remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although Creation had the right to repair 
the sofa, it hadn’t arranged the inspection in a  timely fashion and hadn’t explained its right to 
repair to Mrs N . He recommended that Creation paid compensation and refund the costs of 
an insurance policy that Mrs N had paid for but which hadn’t been set up.
Creation said it required written confirmation that the policy hadn’t been set up. It didn’t 
respond to the remainder of the view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there’s been a 
breach of contract by the supplier.
Mrs N was upset about the fault with her sofa and about the delay in having it inspected. She 
doesn’t understand why Creation won’t allow her to reject the sofa.
I’ve read the technicians report. Based on this, I’m satisfied that there’s a manufacturing 
fault. The sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied and Creation need to put things 
right here.
Under the relevant legislation – the Consumer Rights Act 2015 – Creation is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. This is what Creation has said it wants to do.
The issue here is that although Creation advised Mrs N that it intended to repair the sofa , it 
didn’t explain what the relevant legislation said about this and as such, Mrs N wasn’t fully 
aware of her consumer rights or of why she couldn’t reject the sofa. Mrs N has said that if 
she had been made aware of her rights, she would have accepted the repair and would have 
had no need to complaint to this service.
On balance, I think Creation could have explained things more clearly. This – as well as the 
delay in arranging the inspection of the sofa – has caused Mrs N unnecessary trouble and 
upset. In the circumstances I think it’s fair to ask Creation to pay compensation.
In relation to the insurance policy, Mrs N has given a clear and consistent testimony that this 
was never set up. Creation hasn’t provided anything to show that the policy came into effect. 
I prefer Mrs N’s version of events about this. I don’t think she should have had to pay for a 
non-existent policy, so this sum should be refunded.
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should arrange for repairs to the sofa, refund the cost of the 
insurance policy and pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited must:
Arrange for repairs
Refund the insurance policy
Pay compensation of £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
