DRN-3816918
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd are charging interest on a loan.
What happened
Mr D took out a loan with Creation to purchase a chair from a third-party retailer. When Mr D 
began making payments against the loan, he noticed that Creation were charging interest on 
the balance which meant the overall amount payable was more than he paid for the chair. Mr 
D wasn’t unhappy about this, especially as the retailer that sold him the chair had never 
informed him that he’d have to pay interest on any loan he took to purchase the chair. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr D’s complaint. But they noted that the credit agreement Mr D had 
signed electronically included that interest would be charged on the loan, and they felt that if 
Mr D had made a private arrangement to the contrary with the retailer then this was a matter 
Mr D would need to take up with the retailer directly. Mr D wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didn’t feel that Creation had acted 
unfairly in how they’d managed the situation, and so they didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes a copy of the credit agreement, which specifically states that interest will be 
charged on the loan and details how much total interest will be charged. Mr D has stated that 
he’s never seen or signed this credit agreement, but the credit agreement itself confirms that 
it was signed electronically by Mr D on 19 May 2021.
As such, I’m satisfied that it was reasonable for Creation to have acted on the basis of that 
credit agreement and to have charged interest on the loan as they did.
If it was the case that Mr D had been told by the retailer that any loan he entered into to 
purchase the chair would be an interest free loan, then I feel that this is a matter that Mr D 
would need to take up with the retailer directly. 
Additionally, if any other similar occurrence took place – such as the retailer entering Mr D 
into a loan agreement with Creation that he wasn’t aware of – then I also feel that this would 
be a matter Mr D would need to resolve with the retailer directly.
However, for the purposes of this specific complaint against Creation, I find it very difficult to 
conclude that Creation have done anything wrong here. 
This is because I’m satisfied that Creation have acted in accordance with a credit agreement 
which they have record of being signed electronically by Mr D, and which confirms that 
interest will be charged on the loan in question.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows that I won’t be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Creation to take any further action. I trust that Mr D 
will understand, given what I’ve explained, why I’ve made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman
