DRN-4119772
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) dealt with her 
complaint about a credit agreement she took out with it.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs P and her daughter visited a third party retailer, I’ll call this retailer “H”. Mrs 
P’s daughter selected a number of items including a sofa and a loveseat that were meant for 
Mrs P’s daughter’s home. Mrs P and her daughter do not live together. Mrs P paid for the 
goods using a fixed sum loan provided by Creation. H acted as the credit broker in relation to 
this finance agreement.
Mrs P tells us that things did not go smoothly, specifically she says:
“Upon the 1st delivery attempt it was apparent the 4 seater sofa was too big to fit in the 
property (even after the sales manager at [H’s] store looked at the floor plans of the flat and 
assuring me and my daughter it would fit). 
To resolve this, [H] suggested they would contact a local joiner, that they use often in these 
circumstances, to dismantle the sofa so we could get it into the lounge, where it would then 
be reassembled. This would cost £150.00 (to be paid in cash by my daughter, and 
subsequently reimbursed by them by being taken from the total credit amount). 
My daughter was also informed a few days prior to the agreed delivery date,…, that the 
loveseat had not passed the quality check so would not be delivered, at which point my 
daughter decided not to wait another 13 weeks, but to go without the loveseat. Again, [H] 
agreed to take this off the credit agreement”.
Consequently Mrs P thinks H had a contract with her which it both misrepresented and 
broke. Moreover, the amount she owes under the credit agreement should have been 
reduced by £799 (the cost of the loveseat) and £150 (the reassembly charge). Mrs P 
indicates that H agreed to this but never changed the relevant paperwork to reflect this. And 
neither did H tell Creation that the amount borrowed under the loan needed to be changed, 
although it should have done. Then H went into administration and Creation started pursuing 
her for the full amount.
Mrs P took matters up with H’s Administrators, but they were unable to assist saying she’d 
brought her claim to it too late. Therefore Mrs P complained to Creation. 
Mrs P thinks she can ask Creation to put things right because of the type of credit she used 
in this transaction. This is because as she took out a fixed sum loan provided by Creation 
then she may have the protection of Section 75. The general effect of Section 75 is that if 
Mrs P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier (here that 
is H) she can also bring a like claim against Creation provided certain conditions are met.  
Her position is that she should not have to pay for the joiner’s fee as this was only incurred 
due to misrepresentation by H. Moreover, she should not have to pay for the loveseat as she 
never received it, which was a breach of contract. Therefore, Mrs P complained to Creation. 
Creation’s position is that Mrs P told it H was meant to give her compensation and a cost 
reduction. It does not say if it accepts this is the case. But in any event, H’s records show 
according to the administrator, that in 2019 H took £614 off the purchase price. Therefore 
Mrs P has received the remedy she told Creation she is entitled to, and therefore Creation 
did not agree it had to take any further action and did not uphold her complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mrs P complained to this service.
Once her complaint was with us we asked Mrs P to send us any information she had to 
demonstrate she had a contract with H. Mrs P sent us photos taken in H’s store, of the 
furniture with price tags on them.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs P’s complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mrs P’s complaint should be upheld.
As far as I am aware this service received no response from Creation to our investigator’s 
recommendation, but Mrs P rejected it. Mrs P repeated her earlier stance. Mrs P also 
pointed out that H should have changed the paperwork at the time and that Creation’s 
paperwork should reflect the reality of the situation.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. I considered the available evidence, 
having done so I was not minded to uphold Mrs P’s complaint. However my reasoning was 
not entirely the same as that on which our investigator had relied. Therefore, I thought it was 
fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision. On this basis, I issued a provisional decision and 
I’ve set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final 
decision.
“What I’ve decided and why
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored 
it. Rather, I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Creation has not made it clear whether it disputes that Mrs P was entitled to the cost 
reduction and compensation that she claims (I’ll call this “argument 1”). Or whether it is 
merely saying she was entitled to the cost reduction and compensation and she got it 
(“argument 2”).  In this complaint I’ve considered both argument 1 and argument 2. In either 
case Mrs P and Creation disagree about whether she is entitled to any remedy or any further 
remedy. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulator’s rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Relevant law 
here includes Section 75.
As I’ve already mentioned Mrs P can potentially rely on the protection of Section 75. 
However before I can look at whether there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract I have to look at whether Mrs P meets the “qualifying conditions” for a valid claim 
under Section 75.
I recognise that this approach may cause Mrs P some consternation as Creation has not 
raised this issue. However, I have an inquisitorial remit and that means, amongst other 
things, I have to look at the complaint in the round. I think it is fair and reasonable that I look 
at whether the arrangement under this complaint met the conditions for a valid claim under 
Section 75 before I look at the wider merits of the complaint. Because if Mrs P has no valid 
claim under Section 75 then those wider merits fall away, in relation to this part of her 
complaint.
Section 75 requires that there must be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place 
as defined under Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In short, under such an 
agreement Mrs P has to be the debtor, Creation the creditor and H the supplier. To establish 
whether such an agreement is in place I need to look at the arrangements between the 
parties and how they are structured. In particular in this instance I need to look at what 
contractual agreement (if any) existed between Mrs P as a debtor and H as the supplier.
In the first instance, the most compelling evidence would be the written contractual 
documents. I recognise that contracts can be verbal. But there are evidential difficulties with 
verbal contracts that don’t exist when the contract is written. However, that said, we have not 
got a copy of the contract of sale nor the terms and conditions that might have applied to that 
contract nor the invoice of sale. We asked Mrs P to send us of any contractual documents 
she had from H, but we have not received any. 
We do have a copy of the finance agreement between Mrs P and Creation. Mrs P’s name is 
on this contract, but the address is her daughter’s. The fact that Mrs P paid for the furniture 
that was supplied by H does not tell us though, by itself, that she contracted with H. It is 
possible that she did contract with H for the benefit of her daughter. It is also equally 
possible that Mrs P’s daughter contracted with H and Mrs P merely discharged her 
daughter’s obligation to pay H by entering into the finance contract with Creation.
Given the written documents do not give a clear-cut answer to the question of who 
contracted with H, I’ve looked at the wider circumstances. 
Both Mrs P and her daughter were there when the furniture was chosen and ordered from H. 
But the furniture was delivered to Mrs P’s daughter’s address. Moreover, it was Mrs P’s 
daughter not Mrs P who paid the joiner. Further, it was Mrs P’s daughter who apparently 
cancelled the loveseat part of the contract, without consulting her mother first. All of these 
actions on the part of Mrs P’s daughter [ plus the fact the furniture was delivered to Mrs P’s 
daughter] suggest on balance that she was the contracting party in relation to the contract 
with H.
Mrs P has also told us that her daughter entered into verbal contracts with H when she 
agreed instore to pay for the joiner and H would reimburse her. And when she was 
contacted by H and told the loveseat had failed the quality check and she cancelled that part 
of the contract. Which indicates that Mrs P also thought it was her daughter who contracted 
with H. 
That said, I don’t necessarily agree that Mrs P’s daughter did enter into verbal contracts but 
her behaviour as I have said makes it seem more likely than not that she was the contracting 
party in relation to the contract of sale with H. 
I’ve thought about other scenarios that might have been possible here. Mrs P, her daughter 
and H could all have been parties to the contract of sale. Or Mrs P’s daughter could simply 
have been acting as the agent for her principal that is her mother. But I’ve discounted those 
alternative scenarios. Nothing I’ve seen suggests that there was a contract between Mrs P 
her daughter and H. Nor have I seen anything that suggests Mrs P’s daughter was only 
acting as the agent of her mother. Rather I think Mrs P’s daughter’s behaviour indicates on 
balance that she was the contracting party and the sole contracting party with H.
Moreover I think it is significant that H called Mrs P’s daughter and not Mrs P to tell her about 
the loveseat. This suggests to me in circumstances H thought it was contracting with Mrs P’s 
daughter and not Mrs P.
Further Mrs P tells us after Mrs P’s daughter cancelled the loveseat this happened.
“My daughter called the store manager at H numerous times to request the revised credit 
agreement at which point she was told 'that’s not how it works' and it would simply 'just come 
off the end of the credit payments’.
The fact that Mrs P’s daughter was doing the post contractual negotiating with H and that it 
was responding to her suggests that Mrs P’s daughter was the contracting party on balance.
For all of these reasons, I am not satisfied that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place such as would permit Mrs P to bring a claim under Section 75. It follows, 
that the points about misrepresentation and breach of contract under Section 75 therefore 
fall away. It also follows that I don’t uphold this part of Mrs P’s complaint.
The credit agreement
Setting aside issues of Section 75. I can well understand why Mrs P is adamant that the 
credit agreement should accurately reflect what was agreed with H. I should imagine 
Creation would support this stance too, but its position is the credit agreement is already 
accurate. 
Moreover, in any event, the relevant regulations require that the finance agreement should 
accurately reflect the agreement between the parties. That means in this instance it should 
reflect the actual amount of credit taken out by Mrs P. 
The difficulty for Mrs P is that I simply don’t have enough information to uphold this part of 
her complaint. I’m not satisfied that the credit agreement was meant to be varied as she 
says. I say this because I would have needed to see information such as correspondence or 
contemporaneous notes which indicated that the sales contract had been amended and 
therefore the finance agreement needed to be amended too. If Mrs P or her daughter had 
such information it seems they would have already sent it to us.
Moreover, Mrs P seems to be suggesting that H did not contact Creation to tell it to change 
the amount of credit because it went into administration before it could do this. But I’ve seen 
nothing that tells me that the administration happened very close in time to the events Mrs P 
complains about, so it did not have time to ask for the credit agreement to be amended.
Further, Mrs P would also have to explain her delay in complaining to Creation. It appears 
she had to start making payments in July 2019 but only complained to Creation in November 
2020. If the finance agreement did not accurately reflect the amount of credit she took out I 
would have expected Mrs P to have complained sooner.
Further still, the issue of the £614 price reduction still remains unexplained. Even if I accept 
Mrs P’s stance that H agreed to not charge for the loveseat and agreed to pay for the 
joiners, which I don’t, it could be that the £614 price reduction was the remedy for this. I 
cannot discount this possibility as I’ve not seen the invoice from H so I’ve no documentary 
evidence to show what H charged under the contract for the loveseat the photos don’t 
demonstrate this the invoice would. Nor have I seen anything to show the joiners were 
instructed by H and paid by Mrs P’s daughter. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“Section 56”)
For completeness I mention there was one further avenue open to Mrs P to recover part of 
her money. H had two roles here it was the retailer, but it was also the credit broker in 
relation to the loan with Creation. Under Section 56 Creation could be held to account for a 
material misrepresentation made by H that induced Mrs P to enter into the contract with 
Creation. 
Mrs P suggests that she only entered into the finance agreement because H misrepresented 
the sofa, in that it said it would fit into her daughter’s home. But typically furniture retailers 
put the onus on the person buying the furniture, (here, I have found this is Mrs P’s daughter), 
to check the furniture will fit in their home. 
In the circumstances, I don’t find it likely that H misrepresented the sofa to Mrs P, and this 
induced her to enter into the contract with Creation. It follows I’ve no proper basis to uphold 
this part of Mrs P’s complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not currently intend to uphold this complaint.”
As I have already mentioned, I invited both Mrs P and Creation to respond to my provisional 
decision. As far as I am aware this service has received no response from either.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to reach a decision in this complaint, amongst other things I looked at whether Mrs 
P contracted directly with H as she indicates that she did. I already explained in my 
provisional decision why this was a key question. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I’ll add that when I looked at whether Mrs P most likely contracted with H I also took account 
of the fact that the furniture was meant for Mrs P’s daughter’s home and not for Mrs P’s. This 
is another point along with those that I have already mentioned that led me to conclude that 
on balance, the contract of sale for the furniture was made between Mrs P’s daughter and H 
only.
I’ve received no responses to the provisional decision as far as I am aware and no new 
arguments, it follows I’ve reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. 
My reasons for reaching these conclusions are the same as those set out in my provisional 
decision with the addition of the point about the furniture being bought for Mrs P’s daughter’s 
home.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs P’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman
