DRN-3678336
The complaint
Mr V complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a fixed sum 
loan he couldn’t afford to repay. He also complains that it didn’t offer his assistance when he 
told it he couldn’t meet the repayments.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr V acquired a new furniture financed by a fixed sum loan agreement 
from Creation. Mr V paid a deposit of £414 and was required to make 36 monthly 
repayments of £100. The agreement was 0% interest.  
Mr V says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasn’t affordable. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and assessing the 
information Mr V provided as part of his application.  
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr V didn’t agree and said that the credit check only showed his previous payments and not 
whether the agreement was affordable going forward. He said he had previous irresponsible 
lending complaints upheld against other companies. He said he wasn’t earning over £50,000 
at the time of the application and that had adequate checks been carried out Creation would 
have found his annual income was £38,000.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation says that Mr V’s application included information that he owned his home, was in 
full time employment with an annual income above £50,000 and had one dependent. It also 
carried out a credit check which showed Mr V had credit card debts of £2,854, no 
outstanding debt in short term lending, £483 monthly commitments in secured lending and 
£508 unsecured lending. It said based on its checks the lending was affordable.
While I note the information gained through the credit check, I think it reasonable that a 
credit assessment would also provide information about how Mr V was managing his 
existing credit commitments, including information about any defaults, missed payments or 
county court judgements. I haven’t seen that this information was gathered, and I’ve 
therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr V to assess what information 
would likely have been seen had these checks taken place.
Mr V’s credit file didn’t show any defaults or county court judgements but it did show that he 
missed a payment on an account a month before his application to Creation and had also 
entered a debt management plan around a year earlier. I think this shows signs that Mr V 
had previously experienced financial difficulties and that these could still be ongoing. It 
therefore would have been proportionate for Creation to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr V’s financial circumstances before lending to ensure the loan was 
affordable.
I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to have found out more about Mr V’s 
income and expenses in order to assess whether the lending was affordable. I can’t be 
certain what Mr V would have told Creation had it asked. But in the absence of anything 
else, I’ve placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr V’s statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Mr V’s application said he had an annual income of over £50,000. Mr V disputes this saying 
he was earning £38,000 at the time. I have looked at Mr V’s pay slips for the months leading 
up to the application and these show an average monthly income of around £2,450. 
Additional to this income his bank statements show regular income from another source. 
This gave Mr V a total monthly income of around £4,265. This would suggest he was earning 
over £50,000 a year.
Mr V has explained his regular monthly expenses for credit commitments and living costs 
were around £2,628 before food and transport costs. I have looked at the information in 
Mr V’s bank statements. These show monthly expenses of around £3,700 (including his 
credit commitments, payments for utilities and other living costs such as food and fuel). 
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr V. 
I also note that the repayments were relatively low compared to Mr V’s income and the 
agreement was 0% interest so he was only required to pay back the amount he had the 
benefit of.
For these reasons, I’m not persuaded that Creation acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
