DRN-4109757
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr P throughout. 
What happened
In January 2015 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£7,999 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “R”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,618.11 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £105.15. 
In July 2021 Mr P sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said R told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-funding. He 
said R told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy and his 
energy bills would go down. 
Mr P said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr P decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought R had likely told Mr P the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. They didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they thought R 
had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr P 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mr P pays no more than that, and he keeps 
the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim. 
Mr P agreed, but I can’t see we received a substantive response from Creation. As things 
weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr P. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by R can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming R to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by R for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr P says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr P says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr P to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement.
I should point out Mr P had previously signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for 
what seems to be a £9,900 solar panel system. But the most up to date agreement I have is 
the one for the £7,999 system. The reference on this agreement and payment amount 
matches Creation’s documents. The price matches what seems to be a later invoice from R. 
Neither party has disputed this, so I’m proceeding on this basis.
Mr P has also supplied testimony saying R contacted him and arranged a no obligation visit 
and quote. He said the salesperson pressured him to sign the contract on the day saying the 
system would pay for itself. He said the salesperson enticed him with a discount if he were to 
sign on the same day and told him R had a plan for monitoring the system. Mr P said his 
main motivation for the purchase was for the financial benefit which included its self-funding 
ability. He said at the time he was in training and had young children and his wife was 
pregnant. He said based on what R said he saw the system as an investment rather than a 
liability. But he said he pays in excess of £1,200 per year towards the system but only 
receives around £700. He said he’s had to cut down on his expenses due to the shortfall in 
his disposable income. 
Mr P has also supplied some further information from around the point of sale. He’s supplied 
an invoice with the price of the system (£7,999.01); a domestic electrical installation 
certificate from R; what looks like a quote for the £9,900 system I’ve mentioned above; 
details of the inverter and generation meter; serial numbers for goods; a solar array test 
report; and an MCS certificate saying the estimated annual generation was 3,428kWh. 
Neither of the fixed sum loan agreements I’ve seen set out any of the potential savings Mr P 
was likely to make from having the system installed. I’ve not seen any other estimates of 
savings or benefits were present on the documents given to Mr P at the point of sale. Based 
on what I’ve seen, I don’t think there was an easy way for Mr P to have been able to 
compare the total costs against the benefits he was allegedly promised when he signed the 
fixed sum loan agreement. Mr P has indicated he signed the fixed sum loan agreement 
based on what he was told by R – i.e., that the system would be self-funding. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mr P’s recollections seem plausible.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,260 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr P’s system 
achieved the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the 
agreement, even though I think it’s slightly overperformed compared to the estimate on the 
MCS certificate. I therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. 
I think R’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr P’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think R’s 
representative would have known that Mr P’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him.
Considering Mr P’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely R gave Mr P a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr P’s account of what he was told by R credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had R not given the reassurances he said he received. 
I consider R’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr P expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that R’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr P went into the transaction. Either way, I think R’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for R’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr P 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of R’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of R’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr P received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr P will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr P some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mr P also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr P’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr P’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr P has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr P

Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr P to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early.

Pay Mr P an additional £100 compensation
*Where Mr P has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
