DRN-3546846
The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has added interest to a purchase he 
made on credit, effectively increasing the price of the item he bought.   
What happened
Mr T has a running account credit plan with Creation, which he can use to make purchases 
from a store, C, up to his credit limit.
In January 2021 Mr T bought goods costing £1,884.99. He paid for the goods using the “Buy 
Now Pay Later” (or BNPL) option available with the credit facility. That meant that, if he paid 
for the goods in full within 12 months, he would pay no interest. If he did not pay in full within 
that time, however, Creation would add interest to his account at the purchase interest rate 
that applied at the time.
Mr T has said that he intended to pay in full for the goods before any interest was applied.  
In November 2021 Mr T received a text message from Creation. It said that Mr T’s latest 
statement, dated 27 November 2021, was ready to view in his online account. The message 
also said that the account balance was £1,884.99, that the monthly payment was zero and 
that the payment due date was 18 February 2022. Under the heading “Payment Due Date 
explained”, the message said:
“If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to advise when your 
first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL and date will have been provided at 
the time of purchase, you will receive a reminder 30-40 days prior to the end date plus 
details are available to you in your Online Account Manager.” 
Mr T says that he was therefore surprised when he later received a message saying that the 
balance on his account had risen to £2,354.34 and that a monthly payment of £123.49 was 
due on 18 February 2022. He said he thought November 2021 message meant that, if he 
paid in full by 18 February 2022, his purchase would not attract any interest. 
Creation said that 18 February 2022 was the date by which Mr T had to make a payment. He 
was not required to make a payment before the end of the BNPL period but could avoid 
interest if he did. It did not accept that the November 2021 communication had been 
misleading. 
Mr T did not accept Creation’s explanation and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr T did not accept that assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit agreement explained the BNPL arrangements: 
“If at any time you make Buy Now Pay Later transactions no interest will be charged on any 
payment made during the Buy Now Pay Later period. If you pay the full amount due under 
that Buy Now Pay Later transaction before the end of the Buy Now Pay Later period no 
interest will be payable. If you do not repay the full amount during the Buy Now Pay Later 
period interest will be charged at the rate shown in your credit agreement from the date of 
the Buy Now Pay Later transaction on any amount not paid and you will have to make the 
monthly repayments.”
Mr T says that he did not check his account online; nor did he review the paperwork from the 
time of his purchase to check when the BNPL period ended. He says that the November 
2021 message misled him into believing that the BNPL period ended on 18 February 2022 
rather than on 22 January 2022.
I do not believe that the message was misleading as Mr T suggests. He was told when he 
made the purchase when the BNPL period would end. Payments only became due if he did 
not make payment in full by that date. The message also explained that the payment due 
date was when the first direct debit would be due, and that details of the BNPL end date had 
been supplied separately. I think it was clear that the two were not the same. In addition, the 
message directed Mr T to his online account for further information. That was a clear 
indication that the message did not include information about the end of the BNPL period; he 
needed to look elsewhere for that. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Creation’s information was not 
misleading and that it did not treat Mr T unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr T’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
