DRN-3077482
The complaint
Mr L has complained that his application for credit was declined by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation).
What happened
Mr L made an application to Creation for finance in October 2020 for the purchase of a bed. 
Creation declined Mr L’s application and when he asked why, the business referred him to a 
credit reference agency. Mr L is not happy that his application was declined and says he can 
see no reason why his application was not approved.
Our investigator looked into Mr L’s concerns and didn’t think his complaint should be upheld. 
They thought that Creation had dealt with Mr L’s application properly and it was for individual 
lenders to decide whether they wanted to lend.
Mr L didn’t agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked carefully at everything that Mr L has provided, and I’ve considered the 
information supplied by the business.
I can understand how disappointing it must have been for Mr L to have his application for 
credit rejected and why he is worried about future applications.
As the investigator has explained to Mr L, this service isn’t able to tell business who they 
should lend to. Creation is entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it wants to 
lend to Mr L. 
Creation does not have to give Mr L a specific reason why it refused his application and 
lenders generally keep their lending decisions confidential to protect the scoring system. I 
can’t say that Creation has made a mistake when declining the application.
I do understand that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr L but based on the 
information I have seen, I am unable to conclude that Creation has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
