DRN-3370978
The complaint
Ms S complains about the quality of a washer/dryer she bought using finance provided by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Ms S first complained about the quality of her goods within 30 days of supply. The relevant 
legislation is the Consumer Rights Act (2015) and that says that, in those circumstances, 
she may have had the right to reject the goods and end the finance agreement if there was a 
fault. But I think here that Ms S eventually accepted a repair of the goods instead as one 
was arranged in January 2021.
Ms S says that repair has been unsatisfactory, and the dryer still doesn’t work. Creation 
haven’t supplied any evidence to the contrary and legislation puts the onus on them, in these 
circumstances, to do so. So, I’m persuaded there has been a failed repair on these goods 
and legislation may therefore support a rejection of them now or a price reduction. 
Ms S has now bought a dryer and appears to be using the washer/dryer to wash her clothes 
only. I don’t think a rejection of the goods would therefore be the best solution. That’s 
because Ms S now has a system that is working for her and also because I’d have to 
consider a deduction for the use Ms S has had from the washer/dryer she purchased. 
I think the best solution would be for Creation to provide a price reduction.
Putting things right
The washer/dryer cost £362 and the dryer cost Ms S about £220. I think a price reduction of 
£220 would be reasonable in the circumstances as that accounts for the limited use Ms S 
has had from the washer/dryer and ensures she isn’t out of pocket. Given the issues Ms S 
has had and the fact that it seems unlikely there is as much as £220 left to pay on the 
finance agreement, I’m asking Creation to refund that £220 directly to Ms S rather than 
deducting it from the balance on the account.
They should also pay Ms S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the extensive delays in responding to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay Ms S £220 in respect of the issues she’s had with her washer/dryer and to pay  
£100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
