DRN-4819612
The complaint
Mr M has complained, through a claims management company (“CMC”), about Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’).
What happened
In May 2014, Mr M bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “G”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. Mr M paid off the loan early, on 11 Jul 2016.
Mr M complained to Creation through a Claims Management Company (“CMC”). He said 
that he was told by G that the system would not cost him a penny because the income from 
the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) would cover the monthly loan repayments. But that hasn’t 
happened and as a result he’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation didn’t respond within a reasonable time, so Mr M referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Creation told us that the claim had been made too late, 
since more than 6 years had passed since Mr M purchased the system. And that we didn’t 
have jurisdiction to consider the complaint due to the time limits that we must apply.
Our Investigator said that we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint. And while the s.75 
claim was made too late in relation to misrepresentation or breach of contract, under Section 
140A of the CCA we could still consider whether there was an unfair relationship between 
Creation and Mr M, given when the relationship ended. However, having considered the 
evidence of what happened at the time of sale, the Investigator concluded there was 
insufficient evidence of an unfair relationship, and she didn’t think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr M disagreed with this, so I’ve been asked to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided not to uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our Investigator.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr M’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s failure to respond to Mr M’s s.75 claim within a 
reasonable time. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr M 
brought his complaint about this to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 13 October 2020, 
after he had no response from Creation for around eight months. This was clearly within the 
six-year time limit under our rules. 
So, his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continued, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr M. Here the relationship ended on 11 July 
2016. Mr M had six years from that date to make a complaint about his allegedly unfair 
relationship with Creation. He referred his complaint to the ombudsman service on 13 
October 2020. So, the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and cause of action arose when an agreement 
was entered into on 6 May 2014. Mr M’s CMC says it sent a letter to Creation on 11 
February 2020. But Creation says it didn’t receive this. 
The CMC has provided no evidence that it followed up its letter of claim when it got no 
response, or that it filed a claim form with the Court or took any other action within the 
limitation period. I can see no reason why Mr M was unable to pursue the matter further with 
the Court or with our service within the limitation period. 
So, I think Creation was justified in raising a limitation defence to the claim. While it would be 
for the Court to determine if the time limits had been breached, in my opinion it was not 
unreasonable of Creation to reject the s.75 claim on the basis that Mr M had made the claim 
too late. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Mr M has said that he was told by G’s representative that the system would not cost him a 
penny because the income from the FIT would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Mr M has provided an order form signed on 6 May 2014. This shows the cash price of the 
system was £7,995.00, and the monthly loan repayment would be £103.35. However, the 
order form did not include information about how much electricity the system was expected 
to generate (although there was a space for this information on the form) or the financial 
benefits that could be expected in terms of FIT income and savings on electricity bills. 
While the expected electricity generation wasn’t shown on the order form, I do not think that 
is conclusive evidence that Mr M was misled or that his relationship with Creation was unfair 
on him. There are a number of plausible explanations for this information not having been 
written on the form – such as the sales representative simply forgetting to do so. In any 
case, the expected electrical generation figure would not have told Mr M very much about 
the system, since he would not have the expertise or knowledge to calculate the financial 
benefits that could result from this.
The credit agreement, signed the same day, shows the amount of credit was £7,995.00, the 
total charge for credit was £4,407.48, and the total amount payable was £12,402.48, via 120 
monthly repayments of £103.35.
The CMC says the order form misled Mr M in terms of what he had to pay for the system. 
But given both documents were signed on the same day, presumably in the same meeting, I 
think it’s clear that G gave Mr M clear information on both the loan interest and the total 
amount he was agreeing to pay for the system. 
G was sent a copy of the letter of claim by the CMC when it approached Creation. G 
responded to this and pointed out that after installation of the system Mr M had signed a 
satisfaction note that made clear the total combined benefit (FIT and savings) would be 
£557.03. This is significantly less than the monthly loan repayments that Mr M had agreed to 
pay. And Mr M had never contacted G to make a complaint about the financial benefits of 
the system. 
It seems unlikely that G would’ve told Mr M that the system would be self-funding on a 
monthly basis, only to give him a document immediately after installation which made it clear 
that was not the case. I’m also mindful that if the information on the satisfaction note differed 
significantly to what Mr M had been told prior to installation, it is likely that Mr M would’ve 
taken this up with G at the time, rather than around six years later. 
Mr M has also been unable to provide a copy of the MCS certificate, which he would’ve been 
given after the system was installed. I know he had this since without it he could not have 
applied to receive FIT payments. This suggests he has not retained all the important 
documents in relation to the system. While that is understandable, given the amount of time 
that has passed and that he has moved house since then, it does open the possibility that 
Mr M was given clear written information about the benefits he could expect, as was good 
industry practice at that time, but that he has since lost those documents alongside the MCS 
certificate. 
Overall, I think it is unlikely that a Court would conclude that what happened at the time of 
sale meant the relationship between Creation and Mr M was unfair on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
