DRN-3935538
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t proceed with the provision of a 
finance agreement after it had been approved.
Mrs K is represented by a family member. But for ease of reference, I have referred to Mrs K 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In July 2022 Mrs K made an application for credit and was approved for a credit plan with a 
£500 credit limit. She visited the retailer to make purchases under the plan and after these 
were scanned there was an issue, and she wasn’t able to make the purchases using the 
credit plan. Mrs K says that as she was approved with a credit limit of £500 this should be 
reinstated. She says the issue caused her inconvenience.
Creation issued a final response letter dated 16 August 2022. It said that it received a call 
from Mrs K on 15 July 2022 saying she had made an online application for credit in an 
incorrect name. It says Mrs K was correctly told to visit the retailer with identification for 
assistance. Creation then received a call from the retailer which said it was unable to 
continue with Mrs K’s online application and it says it was understood that Mrs K’s initial 
application would be voided so she could make a new application. Due to this the order 
Mrs K had made with the retailer was cancelled. Creation didn’t uphold the complaint as it 
said there was no evidence that Mrs K’s application had been incorrectly handled and that 
Mrs K could make a new application if she wished.
Mrs K wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold this complaint. He noted the issues that Mrs K had 
experienced but didn’t find there was evidence to say that Creation had done anything 
wrong.
Mrs K didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. She said that the credit was approved under 
her married name and that she provided identification to the retailer. She said that she hadn’t 
been told why her account was reduced to zero. She said this had caused her 
inconvenience because she was unable to get the products she wanted and had to spend 
time in store dealing with this issue as well as on calls to Creation.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I have looked at the agreements Mrs K has provided and these show that on 15 July 2022, 
she was approved for a credit plan with a credit limit of £500. She was sent an email about 
the credit plan which said the next steps were to (1) visit the retailer with a copy of the 
approval email, (2) show this to the sales assistant so the purchases can be processed 
using the credit plan and (3) provide identification. This was required to complete the 
account set up.
Creation has said it received a call from Mrs K saying that while she had made the credit 
application in her married name her passport was in her maiden name. The notes from the 
call show she was told to send her passport and proof of address and take her document 
into the retailer for the application to be processed. I find this reasonable.
Mrs K explained that after being approved for the finance she visited the retailer, signed the 
documents and tried to buy some products. The products were scanned but there was then 
an issue with the system and her application was deleted and she was told she would need 
to apply again. She didn’t want to do this due to the impact on her credit file. While I can 
understand how frustrating this must have been, it isn’t clear that the issue arose due to a 
fault of Creation. 
Creation has explained that it received a call from the retailer saying it was unable to 
continue with the application that had been made online. It isn’t clear if this is a result of the 
issue noted in regard to Mrs K’s name and her identification, but given the issue raised and 
noting the call Creation had previously received I do not find it unreasonable the application 
was voided so that a new application could be made.
I appreciate this would have been an inconvenience for Mrs K but given the sequence of 
events I do not find I can say the actions taken were unreasonable. Mrs K was able to make 
a new application which would be subject to the usual checks which I find a reasonable 
outcome.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels she has been disadvantaged by not being able to buy the 
products she wanted through the credit plan and by the time spent dealing with the issue, 
but in this case, but, on balance, I do not find that the evidence shows that Creation did 
anything wrong. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
