DRN-3453544
The complaint
Mr U complains that Creation Consumer Finance (Creation) refused his application for 
finance and didn’t provide him with a copy of the application to check.  
What happened
In February 2019 Mr U applied for lending with Creation through a third-party retailer for an 
electronics purchase. The application was declined. 
Mr U thought that he may have mistyped some of the information on the application as it was 
late at night when he was doing the application, and so he asked Creation to review the 
application and to send him a copy of it.
 
Creation reviewed the application but said that Mr U didn’t meet their lending criteria, and the 
application remained refused. They didn’t send Mr U a copy of his application.
Mr U was unhappy with this response. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr U’s case. 
  
Mr U disagreed with our investigator’s view and has asked for an ombudsman’s decision 
which is why it has come to me to review.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I can see how it must have been frustrating for Mr U to be refused this application when he 
considers that there would have been no reasons to do so. 
Mr U has told us that his financial position is strong and he has no adverse credit, and so he 
doesn’t feel that his application should have been declined, which was why he appealed and 
asked for a copy of the application. He was also concerned that he might have mistyped 
information, which resulted in the decline. 
Creation aren’t able to provide us with a copy of the application itself, as they say there isn’t 
an application “form” when the application is made through a third party retailer, and they 
only hold a limited amount of information after an application is declined. However, they 
have provided me with screenshots of the information which they do still hold - which 
includes limited personal data such as name, address, date of birth, and phone number. I 
can see that this information matches the data provided to us by Mr U and so I can’t see that 
anything has been mistyped there. I’m not able to share these screenshots with Mr U as are 
internal to Creation and may contain commercially sensitive material about their business 
processes. 
I appreciate that Mr U is frustrated that Creation didn’t send him a copy of his application to 
check over, but as I have said above, they don’t hold an application that they could send 
back to him. 
In respect of the decision to decline credit, I can see on the screenshot that it says the 
application was declined – but there are no reasons detailed, and Creation no longer hold 
this information.  
     
We aren’t able to tell a business when they should or shouldn’t lend consumer, as each 
financial business has their own lending criteria, and they can exercise their commercial 
judgement on each application. They also don’t need to provide detailed reasons for why an 
application has been declined. Creation have told us that they use information from three 
credit reference agencies together with personal data from the application and enter it into 
their internal scoring system, which determines whether lending can be offered. In this case, 
the scoring system determined that they couldn’t lend, and they are satisfied that the criteria 
have been correctly applied. 
Although we can’t change a lending decision, or say what should have been taken not 
account, we can look to see if Creation have applied their lending criteria fairly. However, as 
Creation are no longer able to provide us with information about the reason for the decision, 
other than the lending criteria weren’t met, I’m unable to comment on this.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my decision is that I don’t uphold Mr U’s complaint about 
Creation Consumer Finance.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman
