DRN-3354473
The complaint
Mr B complains about a decision by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) not to 
uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 
75”) about faulty headphones.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I think there has been a breach of contract here. When Mr B returned his headphones the 
report from the manufacturer said that the reported fault was the left ear was broken and 
they’d identified a broken headband. The report said an estimate for a replacement had 
been raised but that there’d been no response. 
When goods fail so early the onus is on the business to demonstrate they weren’t faulty 
when supplied. I don’t think the report from the manufacturer shows this; it says nothing 
about the cause of the failure.
So, in those circumstances, the relevant legislation allows the business to repair or replace 
the goods. 
But here, Mr B returned his headphones in July 2020 and didn’t receive a response from the 
business until April 2021. That was a very long time and I don’t think it would be fair to 
replace the goods as I think it’s very likely Mr B will have found a new set of headphones. In 
those circumstances I think it would be more reasonable to refund the cost of the goods.
Putting things right
Creation will need to refund the cost of the goods with interest as Mr B has been deprived of 
that money.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund the £269 Mr B paid for the headphones and add 8% simple interest per year 
to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund any interest Mr B may have incurred on the purchase, adding 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
