DRN-3162282
The complaint
Mr S complains that a sofa that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, that he signed in 
September 2020, to pay for a sofa. The price of the sofa, including care cover, was £989, he 
paid a deposit of £200 and agreed to repay the loan by 36 monthly payments of £21.91. The 
sofa was delivered to him in September 2020. He says that the cushions sunk and the sofa 
wasn’t fit for purpose. He says that he received a satisfaction survey from the supplier which 
he completed and returned to say that he wasn’t happy with the sofa but he didn’t receive a 
response. His wife then tried to contact the supplier but its store was closed due to the 
government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic. When those restrictions were 
eased, he and his wife went to the store and an inspection of the sofa was arranged.
The inspection identified faults with the sofa and the supplier ordered the parts required to 
repair those faults. Mr S said that he wanted to reject the sofa. He complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance in December 2020 but it said that the sofa had been inspected and parts 
ordered to repair it so he didn’t have the right to reject it. Mr S wasn’t satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Mr S had tried to reject the sofa within 14 days and should be able to reject it due to it being 
of unsatisfactory quality. He recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: cancel 
the agreement; arrange collection of the sofa; remove any reference to the agreement from 
Mr S’s credit file; refund any payments that he’d made, with interest, and pay him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that there’s no evidence that the supplier was informed that the sofa 
was faulty within 14 days and that it believes that the repair should be performed and that 
the sofa shouldn’t be rejected.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the sofa was delivered to Mr S in October 2020 and he says that the cushions sunk 
and the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose;

he says that he received an e-mail from the supplier with a satisfaction survey which 
he completed and returned to say that he wasn’t happy with the sofa – he doesn’t 
have a copy of that survey and I consider it to be likely that the survey was 
completed online so a copy wouldn’t be available to him;

he didn’t receive a response to the comments that he’d made on the survey so he 
says that his wife then tried to contact the supplier but its store was closed due to the 
government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic and that, when those 
restrictions were eased, he and his wife went to the store and an inspection of the 
sofa was arranged;

the supplier has no record of Mr S asking to reject the sofa until he visited the store in 
December 2020 but Mr S has provided a detailed description of his attempts to 
contact the supplier within 30 days of the sofa being delivered to him to say that it 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality and that he wanted to reject it;

I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S did return the survey to the supplier 
in which he said that he wasn’t happy with the sofa – and it’s clear that he expected 
the supplier to contact him in response to that – and that his wife also made 
reasonable efforts to contact the supplier within 30 days of the sofa having been 
delivered, but was unable to contact it;

the supplier arranged for the sofa to be inspected and faults were identified so it 
ordered the parts required to repair those faults – but Mr S said that he wanted to 
reject the sofa and I understand that it hasn’t been repaired;

the inspection confirmed that there were faults with the sofa and, as I consider that 
Mr S had made reasonable efforts to contact he supplier about those faults within 30 
days of the sofa having been delivered to him, I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for him to be able to reject the sofa; and

I’m not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for Mr S to have to accept a 
repair of the sofa.
Putting things right
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should end the fixed sum loan agreement and 
arrange for the sofa to be collected from Mr S – both at no cost to Mr him. I find that it should 
also remove any information about the agreement that it’s recorded on Mr S’s credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr S paid a deposit of £200 for the sofa. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to him that deposit and any 
monthly payments that he’s made under the agreement, all with interest.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £50 to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the fixed sum loan agreement and arrange for the sofa to be collected from 
Mr S – both at no cost to him.
2.
Refund to Mr S the deposit that he paid for the sofa.
3.
Refund to Mr S any monthly payments that he’s made under the agreement.
4.
Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5.
Remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement that it’s recorded 
on Mr S’s credit file.
6.
Pay £50 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
