DRN-4032089
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In October 2013, Mr H bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr H complained through a Claims Management Company (“CMC”) to Creation, he said that 
he was told by M, amongst other things, that the benefits of the system from income and 
savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and so 
he’s suffered a financial loss since his loan repayments have exceeded the benefits he 
received. The CMC also said that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between him and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr H had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). It 
also said that the Financial Ombudsman Service did not have the power to look at the 
complaint, because it was made too late under the rules we must apply. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Mr H’s complaint, they ultimately thought that: 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr H and 
Creation, so the complaint should be upheld.

There was no need to assess the s.75 claim since this would not change the 
outcome. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr H keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr H had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was 
effectively self-funding. 
The CMC reiterated some of the points it had previously made. Creation did not respond. 
So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr H’s s.75 claim 
on 6 November 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr H brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 20 April 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr H. Here the credit relationship ended on 
30 September 2016. The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 20 
April 2020, which is less than six years later. So, the complaint has been brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Mr H has said that he was told by M’s representative that the benefits of the system from 
income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr H to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. There is not. 
The credit agreement set out what he had agreed to pay, but none of the documents show 
the estimated benefits through income and savings. 
So, I find what Mr H has said is believable. I don’t think he would’ve purchased the system 
without some idea of the benefits of doing so. Given the contract doesn’t contain information 
about the benefits, Mr H would have looked to M’s representative to help him understand 
how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit 
from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In September 2014, it determined that M was in breach 
of a number of sections of the code including sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate 
to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and 
providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
Whilst I accept that the above are findings on different cases the RECC looked at, the 
findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr H’s 
complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr H’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr H left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £134, payable for ten years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr H’s account of what he was told by M is both plausible 
and persuasive. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of more than £1,600 per year. Given how much electricity his system 
produced, I do not think it is at all likely that it would’ve generated sufficient benefits to cover 
the loan repayments – neither on a monthly basis nor within the loan term. So, these 
statements were not true.
I think M’s representative ought reasonably to have been aware that Mr H’s system would 
not have produced benefits at the required level to make the system self-funding within the 
loan term. They ought to have had sufficient information and expertise available to them in 
order to accurately calculate the estimated benefits. 
Considering Mr H’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr 
H a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr H was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr H went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mr H and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would not 
otherwise have taken out.
The s.75 complaint  
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Miss B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome 
in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr H a sum that results in the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of M’s 
assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the original loan term of ten years. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the system over the original 
ten-year term of the loan, so Mr H pays no more than that. 
To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr H will need to supply up to date details, 
where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to 
Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr H’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe caused Mr H some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this Creation 
should also pay Mr H additional compensation as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr H has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr H’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr H 

Pay Mr H £100 additional compensation
*Where Mr H is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculations using known 
and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
