 
 
DRN-5094318 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr H has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr H throughout. 
 
What happened 
On 28 January 2014, Mr H signed a loan agreement for a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation to pay for a solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “Z”. The loan amount was 
for £10,250 and the total amount payable under the agreement was £16,110 and it was 
due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £134.25. 
 
Creation told us that they received Mr H’s letter of complaint on 12 January 2022. In the 
complaint Mr H explained that he considered he had a valid claim due to 
misrepresentation and breach of contract by Z. Mr H said he’d been told he could be 
entitled to the solar panel systems at no cost to him. He says he was told the system 
would be fully self-funding. But the income and savings have not been sufficient to cover 
the cost of the borrowing. On the basis of the above Mr H said he had a like claim against 
Creation for breach of contract and misrepresentation under s75. To resolve the claim and 
complaint, Mr H requested that Creation should make a payment to settle the matter. 
 
Creation issued their final response letter on 18 January 2022 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. As Mr H 
remained unhappy with Creation after the final response, he asked us to review the 
complaint on 23 March 2022. 
 
On 10 January 2023, one of our investigators looked into things and thought Z had likely 
told Mr H the system would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set 
out it wasn’t. They didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan 
term, and so they thought Z had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find 
the relationship between Mr H and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss 
through entering into the agreement. They thought Creation should recalculate the loan 
based on known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mr 
H pays no more than that, and he keeps the system. They also recommended £100 
compensation for the impact of Creation not investigating the s.140A claim.  
 
As we have not received a response to that assessment from Creation, the case was 
passed forward for the next stage in our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
I issued my first provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 October 2024, a 
section of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional 
decision, I set out the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr H’s complaint. I set out 
an extract below: 
 
 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
 
On other cases, Creation has argued on other cases that the event complained of when the 
matter is brought to our service occurred as and when the supplier caused the alleged s.75 
liability to arise in the first place. I disagree: the lender’s s.75 liability in damages doesn’t 
arise as a result of any act or omission of the lender in performing a regulated activity – it is 
simply a claim given by statute to the borrower against the lender. And it arises from the acts 
or omissions of a third party, the supplier. Only when and if that claim is presented by the 
borrower to the lender must the lender do anything about it, which is to honour its statutory 
liability by paying the claim if it is a valid one. Until then, the lender’s acts and omissions are 
simply to have lent money to the borrower at the borrower’s request, and that is not the 
matter complained about.  
  
So, when a borrower brings a complaint to our service alleging that they were due money 
under s.75 which the lender has refused to pay, the “event complained of” in such 
circumstances isn’t the supplier’s conduct; it is the lender’s refusal to honour its alleged 
statutory liability when the borrower made the claim.  
 
In this case, Creation rolled up its consideration of Mr H’s claim into a letter that treated Mr H 
as having brought a complaint which he was entitled to refer to our service.  So, its refusal to 
accept and pay the s.75 claim was inferred from a final response letter of 18 January 2022, 
in which it told Mr H he could refer his complaint to our service within 6 months.  
 
In those circumstances, because Creation’s letter dated 18 January 2022 rejected Mr H’s 
claim under s.75 by saying the complaint had been made too late, (a claim which Mr H says 
is valid), it constituted “the event complained of”. It also set out Creation’s response to any 
complaint that flowed from this and invited Mr H to refer that complaint to our service if he 
was dissatisfied with the outcome. Creation could have separated those stages, waited for 
Mr H to complain that the s.75 claim had not been accepted and honoured, and only then 
issued its final response letter. Instead, it followed the same practice that many other lenders 
adopt by allowing Mr H to refer the matter directly to the ombudsman service, by way of 
treating it as a complaint.  
 
Creation has argued in other cases that if a consumer didn’t complain to it about the manner 
in which it dealt with his s.75 claim, and that it has never responded to such a complaint. But 
that ignores the fact that it was Creation’s choice to roll the answer to the s.75 claim into a 
final response letter in the way that I’ve described. That was a reasonable and pragmatic 
way of proceeding, because the issues between the parties on this part of Mr H’s complaint 
were whether it was fair and reasonable for Creation to reject Mr H’s s.75 claim, as they 
remain to this day.  
 
Creation also refers to DISP 2.8.1R(1) which broadly provides a complaint can only be 
considered if the respondent has sent the complainant its final response (or summary 
resolution communication). However, Creation did send Mr H a final response letter on 18 
 
 
January 2022. And in this case, I note that after the complaint was referred by Mr H to the 
ombudsman service on 23 March 2022, we wrote to Creation providing details of the 
complaint as submitted to the ombudsman service including details of Mr H’s complaint 
about the s.75 claim. 
 
If Creation’s position had been that it denied it received any such complaint, it could have 
raised this with the ombudsman service at the time, but it did not. Instead, it provided 
information concerning its position on the complaint. It was apparent from this 
correspondence that, in relation to s.75, Mr H’s complaint was that Creation had a liability to 
him which it was declining to pay.   
 
So, even if no final response had been issued in respect of the complaint about s.75, in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.1R(2) Creation has had well over eight weeks to respond to the 
complaint and our service is entitled to deal with it. 
 
There has been no conflation with the six-month time limit under DISP 2.8.2R(1) in this 
regard. That Creation refused to accept the s.75 claim within a final response letter does not 
give rise to any difficulties calculating when time begins to run under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a).  
 
Creation also argued on other cases that the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into 
account the Limitation Act 1980 (“the LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 
2.8.2R saying when a complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. 
However, I do consider that the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr H’s 
complaint about its rejection of the s.75 claim. 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments on other cases about our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr H is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair 
relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship 
ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on foot, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr H’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr H unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr H 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr H’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
 
 
Mr H says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr H says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr H to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr H to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr H would have looked to Z’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. 
 
And in this case, I’ve noted a customer satisfaction note. This says that the estimated first 
year annual savings could be £791.91. The first year’s loan repayments would be £1,611. 
So, it could be argued that Mr H should have been aware that the returns from the solar 
panel system would not cover the cost of the loan. So, we asked Mr H about this. Mr H 
explained that the representative of Z explained that the loan would be self-funding within 
the life of the loan. Mr H told us, 
 
“It was made quite clearly that in 5-6 years that we get back from the solar panels what we 
had paid and would start to make a decent return.” 
 
I note that the figures on the customer satisfaction note refer to the first-year performance 
and not the life of the loan. So, whilst this document suggests the costs of the loan could 
outweigh the financial benefits in year one, it seems that Mr H was receiving assurances 
from Z’s representative that the solar panels would be self-funding. So, on balance, I do 
not think this document undermines Mr H’s testimony that he was told the solar panel 
system would be self-funding over the lifetime of the loan.  
 
In any event, I have also noted that the loan agreement was signed by Mr H on 28 
January 2014. Whilst the customer satisfaction note is dated 28 January 2014, it was not 
signed by Mr H until 17 February 2014. So, it is quite possible that this information was not 
available to Mr H at the time he made his decision to take out a loan to pay for solar 
panels. I would need more information from Z to understand how these figures were 
presented to Mr H at the time of the sale and when that happened. 
 
I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mr H would 
have agreed to pay for the system if his monthly outgoings would increase significantly. On 
balance I find Mr H’s account to be plausible and convincing. I note that this was the finding 
made by our investigator. And I note that Creation has had nothing to say about that since 
the assessment was issued in January 2023. 
 
So, having considered all of the submissions made to me in this case, it is my opinion that 
this documentary evidence does not undermine Mr H’s testimony that he entered into the 
finance agreement on the basis that the solar panel benefits would more than cover the 
cost of the monthly finance repayment. And that the panels would be self-funding within 
the lifetime of the loan. 
 
 
 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £1,611 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest he’s achieved anywhere near this 
benefit. I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of 
the system weren’t true.  
 
I think Z’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr H’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think Z’s 
representative would have known that Mr H’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him. 
 
Considering Mr H’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely Z gave Mr H a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of meaningful prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on, I find Mr H’s account of what he was told by Z 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he 
would have seen this purchase appealing had Z not given the reassurances he said he 
received.  
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr H expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr H went into the transaction. Either way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr H 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
H a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
Z’s assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation told us in other cases that it considers our approach to redress should be in 
accordance with the Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this 
doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson 
concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair 
redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a contractual promise 
regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about 
that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should be based on Mr 
 
 
H’s expectation of what he would receive. I consider Mr H has lost out, and has suffered 
unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to it 
exceed the benefits from the solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results 
in fair compensation for Mr H. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the systems over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr H 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr H some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
I have seen no evidence that the loan is not still running.  
 
For the reasons I have explained I’m intending to uphold Mr H’s complaint and to direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr H made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr H’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr H.  
• 
Give Mr H the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments. 
• 
Pay Mr H an additional £100 compensation 
 
*Where Mr H has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Finally, I note Mr H also mentioned claiming damages through s.75. Given my above 
conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of Mr H’s 
 
 
s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.” 
  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 18 October. Mr H accepted my provisional findings. Creation has 
not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or asked for an 
extension to do so.  
 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr H’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr H’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr H’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
