DRN-4351408
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr T is being represented in this complaint by Mr D. However, for ease of reference, I’ll refer 
to any comments or actions by Mr D as if they were made/done by Mr T.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. He paid an advance payment of £800, and the agreement was for £8,398 over 52 
months; with 51 monthly payments of £223.56 and a final payment of £233.56. At the time of 
supply, the car was around seven and a half years old and had done 38,574 miles.
Mr T returned the car to the supplying dealership on 15 February 2023 as the engine felt 
sluggish and the engine management light (EML) was illuminated. The dealership cleared 
the fault codes and carried out a 56-mile road test. The car was returned to Mr T, having 
done 39,178 miles – 604 miles since supply.
However, the car was returned to the dealership shortly afterwards, as the EML had come 
on again and the car had gone into limp mode. The dealership recorded the return mileage 
as 39,178 miles, meaning Mr T had driven the car for less than a mile before the fault 
reoccurred. The dealership again cleared the fault codes and returned the car back to Mr T 
on 25 February 2023, this time after a 279-mile road test.
The car went back to the dealership in early March, where again fault codes were cleared, 
and the car returned to Mr T. The dealership says that after this repair, Mr T agreed to 
monitor the car and, if the fault reoccurred, then he would bring the car back for further 
investigation. The dealership also says that, as Mr T signed an acceptance of repair, the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) allows them to continue to conduct any necessary repairs 
to the car.
However, the fault reoccurred, and Mr T didn’t take it back to the dealership. He continued to 
drive the car and, as long as he kept below 3,000RPM, it wouldn’t go into limp mode. The 
dealership had offered Mr T the option to take the car to a local garage, as he lived over 200 
miles from the dealership, which Mr T did. And a diagnostic scan revealed faults with the fuel 
injectors, air flow circuits, air intake temperature sensors, and the turbocharger sensors.
Mr T had raised his complaint with Creation, asking to reject the car. But Creation said the 
car had been repaired by the dealership. So, Mr T brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a persistent fault with the car, which made it not of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. And, as there had been multiple attempts 
at repair, Mr T was now able to reject the car. And she thought Creation should pay Mr T 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’d been caused.
After the investigator had issued her view, Mr T explained that the car was due to have an 
MOT in August 2023, and it was expected the car would fail this. He was concerned that, 
without the car, he would need to pay around £100 a week to get to work. The investigator 
amended her view to say that, in these circumstances, and with proof supplied by Mr T, then 
Creation should reimburse these travel costs.
Creation didn’t agree with the investigator. While they didn’t object to the finding that the fault 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, they said that Mr T had 
agreed to return the car to the dealership if the fault reoccurred. Which he didn’t do.
Creation said that, given this, the CRA allowed the dealership to repair the car and that Mr 
T’s agreement for this “is something which cannot be taken away once agreed.” As such, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, Creation are responsible. What’s 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr T to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr T took possession of it, or that the car wasn’t 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and 
reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
In this instance, it’s not disputed there was a problem with the EML light keep coming on, nor 
that this fault was present when the car was supplied to Mr T. As such, I’m satisfied that I 
don’t need to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, I’ll focus on what I 
think Creation should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Section 24(5) of the CRA says “a consumer who has … the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations – (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract.” This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs – the first attempted repair is the single 
chance at repair. What’s more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if those 
faults aren’t related, the single chance of repair has already happened – it’s not a single 
chance of repair per fault.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, as was the case here, then Mr T 
has the right of rejection. 
I appreciate Creation’s comments that Mr T had told the dealership he’d take the car back 
for further repairs if the fault reoccurred. Section 23 (6) of the CRA states “a consumer who 
requires or agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace them, or 
exercise the short-term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to replace 
them.” However, it isn’t the short-term right to reject that’s being considered here, but the 
right to reject after a failed repair. 
While Mr T may’ve said he’d bring the car back to the dealership if it failed for a third time, he 
didn’t do so. So, the car wasn’t presented for repair, which I’m satisfied means that Mr T 
didn’t agree to a third repair. And there’s nothing in the CRA which says that Mr T saying he 
would do something in the event of another event occurring i.e., he would return the car for 
repair if it failed again, is legally binding and he therefore must do so.
As such, for the reasons stated, I remain satisfied that Mr T has the right to reject the car.
Despite the quality issues, Mr T has been able to use the car while it’s been in his 
possession. And it’s my understanding that, while it was being repaired, he was also 
provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. Because of this, I think it’s only fair that he 
pays for this usage. So, I won’t be asking Creation to refund any of the payments he’s made.
Mr T has also raised the issue of the car failing its MOT and the alternate travel expenses he 
would incur as a result. The investigator has said that, in these circumstances, and with 
proof of his expenses, then Creation should refund these. The publicly available MOT record 
shows the car failed its MOT on 25 August 2023 due to an issue with a headlight, and not 
something connected with the fault with the car. The MOT record also shows that this issue 
was fixed the same day, and the car passed the MOT. Which would mean that Mr T was still 
able to drive it.
As such, as the circumstances in which the investigator said Mr T’s travel expenses should 
be refunded haven’t occurred, I won’t be expecting Creation to refund any alternate travel 
costs. 
However, it’s clear that Mr T has been severely inconvenienced by having to drive a car that 
cannot go over 3,000RPM without it going into limp mode. And by having to take the car back 
to the dealership on multiple occasions for it to be repaired, and by these repairs being 
unsuccessful. So, I think Creation should compensate him for this. The investigator had 
recommended Creation pay him £250, which is in line with what I would’ve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, if they haven’t already done so, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing more to pay;

collect the car at no cost to Mr T;

remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr T’s credit file;

refund the £800 advance payment Mr T paid;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr T made 
the payment to the date of the refund†; and

pay Mr T an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality.
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr T’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
