DRN-2531967
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) reinstated a direct debit 
without permission and took an unauthorised payment.
What happened
Mr M purchased an item on using a Buy Now Pay Later credit option which resulted in Mr M 
entering into a credit agreement with Creation. The purchase price of the item was 
approximately £625, and the credit agreement was for 24 months.
Initially, Mr M was making the credit repayments by direct debit, but in August 2019 he 
cancelled the direct debit instruction and began making repayments by other means.
In November 2019, while Creation were carrying out administration on the account, the 
direct debit was mistakenly reinstated, and this led to the next payment due being taken by 
direct debit.
Mr M wasn’t happy about this and so he made a complaint. Creation returned the money 
taken by direct debit and removed the direct debit instruction. Creation also made an offer of 
£70 to Mr M by way of apology and compensation. But Mr M didn’t think that Creation’s 
compensation offer went far enough and thought instead that the remaining debt should be 
written off. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint, but while they acknowledged that 
Creation had made a mistake in reinstating the direct debit without Mr M’s permission, they 
felt that Creation’s response to Mr M’s complaint, including the £70 offer of compensation, 
was reasonable given the circumstances. So, they didn’t uphold the complaint either.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note comments made by Mr M’s representative to our investigator that Mr M feels that the 
credit agreement should never have been approved by Creation as it wasn’t affordable to Mr 
M at that time. 
As our investigator explained, this service can only consider complaints after the business 
being complained about has had the opportunity to respond to the complaint itself. In this 
instance, because this aspect of the complaint wasn’t included in the initial complaint raised 
with Creation, it means that Creation haven’t had the opportunity to respond to it. This also 
means that this aspect of the complaint isn’t something that this service can look at in this 
instance. Because of this, it was explained to Mr M’s representative that the issue of 
unaffordability would need to be raised with Creation as a separate complaint - if it were 
something that Mr M wished to pursue further – and I have not considered this aspect of Mr 
M’s complaint any further at this time.
It follows that my review of this complaint will focus on the issues that I am able to consider – 
specifically, given that Creation have accepted that it was inappropriate for them to reinstate 
the direct debit without authorisation from Mr M, whether Creation’s response to Mr M’s 
complaint about this was fair and reasonable, given all the circumstances here.
I understand that the outcome that Mr M is seeking is that Creation should write off the 
remaining balance of the debt, and Mr M’s representative has suggested that the payments 
Mr M has already made against the credit agreement should also be reimbursed to him. 
However, where a customer has borrowed money from a business, whether as a personal 
loan or in the form of a credit purchase, such as is the case here, it’s almost always going to 
be fair that they pay this money back – in line with the terms agreed. 
I think that’s the case here. As explained above, the issue of whether this credit agreement 
should or should not have been authorised by Creation is not under consideration at this 
time. But it isn’t in dispute that Mr M agreed to the credit agreement, or that he purchased 
and has enjoyed the benefit of the item that he entered into the credit agreement for, and so 
I think it’s fair here that Mr M should pay the money back in line with the terms of the 
agreement that he entered into.
I can understand Mr M’s frustration that Creation reinstated the direct debit without his 
consent and took a payment via that method, but it doesn’t follow from this that Creation 
should write off the remaining balance of the debt or reimburse Mr M the payments that he 
has already made toward the credit agreement. 
In essence what Mr M is suggesting here is that the mistake made by Creation in reinstating 
the direct debit should invalidate the credit agreement in its entirety. However, I don’t feel 
that this is a reasonable expectation or that it represents a fair or proportionate outcome 
when considered against the overall circumstances of this complaint, especially considering, 
as I have previously mentioned, that Mr M has had the benefit of the money and the item he 
purchased with it.
It’s notable that Creation acknowledged their error in taking the direct debit payment and 
have taken steps to correct that error, including cancelling the direct debit, refunding the 
money taken, and making an offer of compensation. I feel that this is an appropriate 
response in these circumstances, and I note that this is commensurate with how this service 
would expect a business to respond, given the circumstances here. So, it follows that I won’t 
be asking Creation to take any further action beyond the action they have already 
undertaken and the offer of compensation that they have already made.
I realise that this won’t be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope he can understand 
why, given what I have explained above, I don’t think that Creation should consider 
invalidating the credit agreement because of what has happened here, and why I think that 
the complaint response already issued by Creation, including the £70 offer of compensation, 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman
