DRN-3208986
The complaint
Mr B has complained on behalf of his late wife’s estate that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) rejected the estate’s claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in relation to Mr and Mrs B’s purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought solar panels for their home in January 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Creation in Mrs B’s name, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
weren’t. (Mrs B died in 2018, and the loan has since been settled by Mr B.)
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. He also recommended that Creation pay £100 for Mr B’s trouble in bringing 
the claim.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mrs B was the only debtor under the loan agreement, Mr B is not an eligible 
complainant in his own right, because he was never a customer of Creation. I have seen 
Mrs B’s will which appoints Mr B as her sole executor, and so he represents her estate in 
this complaint. Since he is also the sole beneficiary, I will direct that Mrs B’s compensation is 
paid to him directly (as it’s very likely that the estate’s debts will have been settled by now).
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B (and, subsequently, 
her estate) from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more 
than that, and her husband keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the 
loan has ended. (For Creation to carry out this calculation, Mr B will need to provide FIT 
statements, or alternatively a photo of his meter reading and the date it was taken, and also 
an electricity statement from the month when the panels were installed.)
If the calculation shows that Mrs B and Mr B have paid more than they should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse Mrs B’s estate accordingly (but I will direct that the payment is 
made to Mr B). Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a 
financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then I require Creation to recalculate the loan to put 
Mrs B in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution, since Mr B has 
settled the loan, would be that Creation should pay him the difference between what Mr and 
Mrs B paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, then he should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund him the extra which Mrs B and then Mr B paid each month with the Creation 
loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount his wife 
would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I think that would be fair because Mr B was settling a debt owed by his wife’s estate.
I am unable to award Mr B the £100 which was recommended by the adjudicator, because 
(as I have explained above) he is not an eligible complainant in his own right. Nor can 
I compensate him for his inconvenience in his capacity as executor of his wife’s estate. 
I regret that that may come as a disappointment to him.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
