DRN-3927761
The complaint
Ms D has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
Ms D is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
In October 2013, Ms D entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. He paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Creation, which was 
repayable over ten years.
The CMC wrote to Creation in 2020 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to 
provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor 
(Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met. 
Ms D’s claim was that she was told the system would pay for itself within the loan term. 
Creation responded to say it had no liability because the claim was made outside of the time 
limits for such claims which are set out in the Limitation Act 1980.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms D raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service. 
One of our investigators reviewed things but concluded that Creation had not acted unfairly 
by rejecting Ms D’s s.75 claim. In summary, our investigator said that Ms D’s claim was 
made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. So, Creation’s response to 
the claim was reasonable.
Ms D did not accept this. The CMC made a number of points, but essentially said that we 
should consider the claim under s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act, which deals with unfair 
relationships between creditors and debtors. And the CMC implied that the claim had 
originally been made to Creation in 2017. 
Our investigator wasn’t persuaded to change her mind, pointing out that Ms D had not made 
a claim to Creation under s.140. Since our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, 
I’ve been asked to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation has treated Ms D fairly in its response to 
her s.75 claim. There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of Ms D’s 
complaint. In this decision I’ll refer those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
I agree with the investigator that there is no evidence that Ms D has made a claim under 
s.140, so I don’t think Creation needed to respond to such a claim. And it would not be 
appropriate for me to consider this complaint in relation to s.140.
relevant considerations 
Ms D’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can 
be held responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Ms D fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Creation gave for declining Ms D’s claim was that it was made outside of the relevant 
time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
When the claim was made
The CMC suggests the claim was made in 2017 and has provided a letter to Creation from 
that time. This refers to a number of consumers who were sold solar panel systems (without 
naming them). There is nothing to show that Ms D’s claim was included as part of that 
correspondence with Creation. The earliest letter I can see that informs Creation that Ms D 
was making a claim is dated 16 January 2020. So, I think that is the date Ms D made her 
claim. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Ms D’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 are on 
the same basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law – which 
includes breaches of contract. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Ms D says the benefits of the system were the inducement that made her make 
the purchase. But her s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
she entered a contract which wasn’t the value for money she expected. Ms D says were it 
not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then she wouldn’t have entered 
the contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Ms D’s financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the system using a loan, 
which she had a duty to repay. Ms D raised her claim with Creation in January 2020, which 
is more than six years from when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Breach of contract 
s.5 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought 
after the expiration of six years from the date which that cause of action accrued”. 
A breach of contract occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesn’t perform the 
obligations set out in the contract. So, Ms D would have six years to raise a claim from when 
a loss occurred as a result of the breach of contract. 
In my opinion the breach would’ve occurred when the system was installed (and was not 
done with due care or skill or was not as described) and the loss occurred when the loan 
started. Her claim was made more than six years later. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Ms D’s claim against Creation is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament). 
But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s misrepresentation or 
breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Ms D’s claim as I’ve already explained she raised her 
complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Ms D knew, or ought to 
have known, that she had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. 
I think Ms D would’ve known within a few years (at most) that the system was not performing 
in such a way that it would pay for itself within the ten-year loan term. This is because she 
would have three years’ worth of evidence of the benefits of the system, which she could 
compare to the loan repayments. I would usually say one year is sufficient to know the 
benefits were less than the loan repayments. 
The CMC has also suggested a three-year timeframe when it wrote in its letter that, “You 
will no doubt accept, based upon the facts of this case, that a few years of data of 
underperformance is required before a claim can be properly established.” 
The system was installed on 8 November 2013, and three years from then would be 
November 2016. That would allow Ms D until November 2019 to make the claim – which 
doesn’t extend the six-year time limit. As mentioned above, the claim was not made until 
January 2020.
So, I consider it reasonable for Creation to have concluded the claim was made out of time 
and that it had no liability. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Ms D’s s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
I’m satisfied Creation has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Ms D was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms D. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Ms D’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
