 
 
DRN-5666141 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss P says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), irresponsibly lent to her. She says 
it didn’t take reasonable steps to ensure she could afford the repayments towards a credit 
agreement. She says that when she applied Creation should have checked her credit record 
and had it done this, it would’ve seen that she had a poor credit history which included 
defaults on some existing lending.  
 
What happened 
This complaint is about a credit account that Miss P took out in November 2019, I 
understand this was a store card. The account had a credit limit of £1,500. Miss P needed to 
repay the minimum payment each month, and the annual percentage interest rate was 
24.9%.  
 
Miss P has complained to Creation saying that it shouldn’t have lent to her, due to her poor 
credit history.  
 
Creation considered this complaint, and didn’t uphold it. It thought it’d done adequate 
checks, which showed that Miss P could afford the lending. Miss P didn’t agree with this and 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
 
Our Investigator didn’t uphold Miss P’s complaint. She thought that Creation may not have 
performed adequate checks before lending, but she also thought that if it had made better 
checks it would still likely have seen that the account was affordable for Miss P.   
 
Miss P didn’t agree with the Investigator. She said that she had poor credit at the time and 
provided some evidence of this, in the form of payments she was making to a third party 
debt recovery organisation. And even if her monthly income showed enough to cover her 
commitments, her credit file evidenced her erratic spending habits. She said her mental 
health was poor at the time and this should also be considered. 
 
There was some further correspondence, but no new issues were raised. Because Miss P 
didn’t agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider when deciding what’s fair and reasonable in all of 
the circumstances of the complaint. These are: 
 
1. Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss P would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way? 
 
a. if so, did Creation make a fair lending decision? 
 
 
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss P 
could sustainably repay the borrowing? 
 
2. Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
 
And, if I determine that Creation didn’t act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss P’s 
application, I’ll also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
 
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss P 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way? 
 
There’s no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but I’d expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration, and payments of the credit being applied 
for, as well as the borrowers’ personal circumstances at the time of each application.  
 
Creation have explained that it asked Miss P what her income was, and she said that it was 
around £35,000 a year. It also found out that she was a tenant in unfurnished 
accommodation. I can’t see that Creation verified any of this, but it has said that it doesn’t 
now hold full information about the checks it did. This is due to the passage of time and isn’t 
necessarily unreasonable.  
 
Creation has also said that it checked Miss P’s credit file and looked at what her debt to 
income ratio was. It says the information obtained showed that it wasn’t made aware of any 
credit Miss P had at the time. Although I’ve noted that Creation has said this may be 
because no information is now available, as Miss P has said that she did have other credit.   
 
Creation concluded that Miss P passed the credit and affordability checks, which were made 
using the information it was provided at the time from Miss P, and some other sources. 
 
But whilst Creation has outlined the checks it said it did, it hasn’t been able to fully evidence 
the checks themselves, it has only provided a summary of the information it gathered. It can’t 
provide the credit reference agency data it said it looked at. So, I can’t be certain of what it 
considered before lending. 
 
Given this, I don’t think I can say the checks that Creation says it did were reasonable or 
proportionate.  
 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss P would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way? 
 
I’ve gone on to consider what Creation would likely have found had reasonable and 
proportionate checks been carried out. 
 
Miss P has provided an up-to-date copy of her credit report. As this also shows historic data, 
I’m satisfied this will give a good indication of what Creation may have seen on the credit file 
it obtained when it considered her finance application. 
 
Based on this report, while it’s clear that Miss P had some credit when she applied for the 
finance with Creation, she was maintaining all payments and there were no indications of 
any financial difficulties.  
 
This is particularly important here, as Miss P has said she had some defaults. And she has 
provided information to show she was making regular repayments to a third party debt 
management organisation, so this may be the case. But, as far as I can see these defaults 
aren’t on the credit file she has supplied.   
 
 
 
There’s nothing on this report that shows me Creation should’ve declined her application, or 
that it should’ve been unduly concerned about her current financial position. 
 
Miss P has also provided copies of her bank statements for the period just before the 
lending. While I wouldn’t have expected Creation to have asked Miss P for copies of these, 
I’m satisfied that these statements would give a good indication of what Creation would likely 
have taken into consideration had it asked Miss P to verify, or provide more information 
about, her income and committed expenditure during that specific period. 
 
The bank statements show that at the time of the application her income was around £1,100 
a month. And Miss P had regular fixed expenditure of about £500 a month. So, I think it’s 
reasonable to say that if Creation had looked in more detail at Miss P’s finances, then it 
would have seen that she could afford the lending.  
 
And the bank statements don’t show any significant evidence of financial problems such as 
failure to pay priority bills or failed direct debits. I can see that Miss P used the overdraft on 
one of her accounts, but I don’t think this is enough for me to uphold the complaint on this 
basis alone.  
 
So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss P, I’m satisfied that, 
had Creation carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think that it’s likely that it 
would have found the finance to be sustainably affordable. And it’s for this reason that I 
won’t be asking them to refund all or part of the payments Miss P made, or of any interest 
and fees she may have been charged. 
 
I think these factors make it unlikely that Miss P would be able to sustainably repay the new 
loan. And Creation would have seen this if it had made proportionate checks and so it now 
needs to put things right.  
 
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
 
Miss P has said that she had some mental health problems, and this would be evidenced in 
her spending patterns. But to say that Creation should have done something different 
because of this I need to see that it was made aware of the problems she was having. I don’t 
think that Creation was aware of them here and I don’t think it’s clear from her income and 
expenditure details she has supplied.  
 
I’ve also considered whether Creation acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way and 
I have considered whether the relationship might have been unfair under Section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
 
However, for the reasons I’ve already given, I don’t think it lent irresponsibly to Miss P or 
otherwise treated her unfairly in relation to this matter. I haven’t seen anything to suggest 
that Section 140A would, given the facts of this complaint, lead to a different outcome here. 
 
I haven’t seen anything to make me think Creation acted unfairly or unreasonably in some 
other way. 
 
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Miss P’s complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 August 2025. 
  
 
Andy Burlinson 
Ombudsman 
 
