DRN-3205663
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (“Creation’s”) decision not to 
uphold a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“section 75”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m expecting to uphold this complaint and I know that will come as a disappointment to 
Creation, so please let me explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I’m persuaded there has been a breach of contract here. I say that because the quote 
provided by Mrs B to rectify the damage explains it is for “rectifying plaster damage caused 
by the bay window being fitted incorrectly”. Having reviewed the supplier’s details, it looks 
like they have expertise in window fitting and would be well place to decide whether the 
damage identified was as a result of a poorly fitted window.
I’ve also not seen any evidence that Creation’s insurers have disputed the damage was 
caused when the windows were fitted incorrectly by the supplier. Indeed, I think it’s fair to 
say that’s accepted as the insurer asked Mrs B to obtain quotations for the work and in a 
recent email Creation agreed with the investigator’s view that there had been issues with the 
installation.
 
Putting things right
Creation have suggested that Mrs B will need to provide quotes to their insurers, but the 
relevant legislation holds Creation, and not their insurers, responsible for Mrs B’s claim.
I think it would therefore be fair for Creation to accept the recent quote supplied by Mrs B of 
£4,980 and pay her this amount so she can arrange for the repairs to be carried out. 
Mrs B has experienced delays here as the complaint shouldn’t have been passed to 
Creation’s insurers to deal with. In the circumstances I would therefore agree with the 
investigator that the business should pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Pay Mrs B £4,980 so she can arrange for the quoted work to be completed;

Pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she’s 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
