 
 
DRN-4741520 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation won’t help him in 
his dispute about the delivery of some gaming equipment from a merchant. 
 
What happened 
In 2022 Mr M used credit from Creation to pay a total of £689 items of gaming equipment 
which was to be delivered to his address. He says he never received it. The merchant of this 
gaming equipment said it was delivered to his address in October 2022. Mr M says he spoke 
to the merchant but couldn’t get the equipment or his money back. The merchant says this 
contact was in autumn 2023. So he complained to Creation. 
 
Creation looked into the matter and contacted the Merchant. The Merchant responded with 
significant evidence to show all the items had been delivered and noted it had no record of 
Mr M contacting it. So Creation has said it didn’t consider Mr M’s dispute should be 
successful through Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA for short).  
 
Mr M didn’t think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
M’s request for a refund. Mr M didn’t agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the Merchant which isn’t a financial 
services provider and doesn’t fall within my remit regarding Section 75. Whatever the issues 
there maybe with the Merchant and just because Mr M says he has lost out here, it doesn’t 
necessarily follow that Creation has treated Mr M unfairly or that it should refund him. And 
this decision is solely about how Creation treated Mr M. I hope this point is clear. 
 
There’s no dispute that Mr M used his Creation account to make the purchase. So I don’t 
think Creation did anything wrong by charging it to his account. 
 
A business such as Creation can only be held responsible under S75 of the CCA if certain 
requirements are met and if there is breach of contract or misrepresentation of the contract 
and if there is that it means that Mr M has lost out. I’m satisfied the financial limits and debtor 
creditor supplier arrangement is in place. 
 
When Creation contacted the Merchant responded with detailed evidence around the 
packing, packaging, and delivery of the gaming equipment to Mr M’s delivery address 
including details of the courier used. It also noted that due to the significant time between 
delivery and when Mr M raised the issue the delivery courier didn’t have any more detailed 
records of delivery. I’ve considered the records provided and note they are detailed in terms 
of dates and times, package weight, delivery address (matching that Mr M has provided) and 
 
 
other details. I can also see this information logged is date stamped from the time it says the 
delivery was made to Mr M’s given address. On balance I’m satisfied from the audit trail that 
it was delivered to the address. 
 
It should be remembered that the obligation of the merchant and indeed Creation through 
the workings of S75 is to deliver to the address given. It is not obliged to deliver into Mr M’s 
physical possession. So if after it was delivered someone stole the item from Mr M’s 
address, for example, that wouldn’t be the fault of the Merchant or Creation. 
 
Mr M notes that the delivery agent has a lack of ‘tangible evidence’ proving it was delivered. 
I disagree. I’ve seen system notes from the time showing it had been delivered. The test I 
must apply here is the balance of probabilities. Due to the contemporaneous nature of these 
system notes showing delivery I prefer these over the Mr M’s comments given a substantial 
time later that he hasn’t received it, which is different to it not being delivered properly as per 
the terms. 
 
Mr M makes the distinction between dispatched on the merchant’s website and delivered in 
his arguments to try to demonstrate non-delivery. I’m satisfied dispatched as per the 
merchant’s records means provided to the delivery agent. And as mentioned I’ve seen the 
delivery agent’s entries on the system notes showing delivery to Mr M’s nominated delivery 
address. 
 
Mr M says he contacted the merchant ‘repeatedly’ between ordering and taking his 
complaint to Creation. The merchant’s evidence doesn’t support this, it says Mr M didn’t 
contact it until well into 2023. I’m not persuaded Creation has considered the evidence it’s 
collected from both parties unfairly. 
 
Mr M has suggested that the investigator has been swayed by pre-conceived considerations 
about Mr M’s financial status. I’ve seen no persuasive evidence of this. I think the most 
persuasive evidence here is the system notes from the time showing delivery. 
 
In summary and on balance having considered all the evidence available I’m satisfied 
Creation hasn’t treated Mr M unfairly in its consideration of his Section 75 claim to it. 
Consequently Mr M’s complaint is unsuccessful. I’m sorry to hear he has lost out here. But 
this isn’t due to any failing by Creation. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to not uphold the complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2024. 
  
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas 
Ombudsman 
 
