DRN-3269699
The complaint
Mr K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t dealt with his claim made under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 for defective goods that he’d purchased via a credit 
agreement fairly. He wants to reject the goods and receive a full refund rather than have 
them repaired.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr K purchased some items of furniture which included a sofa bed from a 
retailer via a fixed sum loan with Creation. The furniture was delivered in March 2020 and Mr 
K says the sofa bed was delivered with damage which he reported to the retailer. He says 
the retailer had agreed to replace it.
Unfortunately, before any action was taken about the damaged sofa bed the retailer ceased 
trading. Mr K contacted Creation to make a claim in July 2020 but there was some confusion 
about what Mr K was disputing and a section 75 claim was opened in December 2020.
Creation arranged for the sofa bed to be inspected by a third-party engineer. They visited Mr 
K’s home in March 2021 and reported that on inspection the sofa bed’s right-hand facing 
arm had not been fitted into its respective brackets and as a result the back of the
sofa had twisted out of shape. They said there was no damage to the sofa bed’s frame or to 
the covering save for a small scratch on the right-hand facing arm pad. The engineer said 
that as they were unable to say how this damage had arisen, they accepted Mr K’s 
explanation that this was how the sofa bed had been delivered.
The engineer said both of these faults could be easily repaired by replacing the mounting 
bracket and adding pigment to the scratch. They estimated the repairs would take around 20 
minutes to undertake and the cost would be around £80. The engineer noted in their report 
that Mr K was happy to proceed by way of the repairs.
Creation sent Mr K its final response in respect of his claim, it said his claim had been 
accepted and that it would pay for the repairs. Mr K was unhappy at this offer and said he 
wanted to reject the sofa bed and receive a full refund. He complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend Mr K’s complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
the offer of repair was a fair and reasonable offer by Creation. Our investigator said Mr K 
would only be entitled to a full refund if it wasn’t possible to repair or replace the sofa bed. 
Mr K disagrees with our investigator’s view. He says he doesn’t think the suggested repair 
will be adequate and that he bought a new sofa bed but it was delivered damaged. He says 
it would be fair for a full refund to be provided and the sofa bed collected.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a consumer has, in certain 
circumstances, an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a supplier if there’s been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Here, it isn’t disputed that the sofa 
bed was delivered with damage, so Creation has accepted Mr K’s claim.
The issue for me is whether Creation has dealt with Mr K’s claim fairly. As the retailer is no 
longer trading, they haven’t provided any information to Creation. Mr K says that the retailer 
had agreed to replace the sofa bed but then did not do so as it ceased trading. However, I 
don’t know what the retailer had said to Mr K regarding the sofa bed and in these 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for Creation to arrange for the sofa bed to be 
inspected in order to ascertain what was wrong with it.
Although Mr K said the leather on the sofa bed had been torn and the brackets broken, the 
engineer’s report sets out the issues they found were ones that could be relatively easily 
repaired and minor in nature. Looking at the photos provided with the report, the sofa bed 
looks to be in very good condition, and I agree with the engineer that there’s a small scratch 
rather than a cut to the leather on the arm pad.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, if goods are supplied that aren’t of satisfactory quality 
then the consumer has certain rights as to how the matter should be resolved which include 
a short term right to reject the goods in the first 30 days if they are faulty. Here, although I 
appreciate Mr K raised the matter with the retailer first, I don’t know whether that was to 
exercise this right. And I’ve also seen that the faults with the sofa bed are minor and easily 
fixed. So, in these circumstances I think that Creation acted reasonably in investigating the 
matter to find a fair and proportionate solution. I don’t think rejecting the sofa at this point 
would be reasonable when the fix is straight forward, and its overall condition is so good. 
The engineer who inspected it has described it as being in “excellent condition”. And, 
although I appreciate Mr K feels that he should be entitled to a new sofa bed I think that 
would be disproportionate and unreasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr K doesn’t think the repair will be adequate, but I haven’t any reason to think 
that what the engineer has said is required to repair the sofa bed isn’t correct. However, if 
Creation is unable to repair the sofa bed satisfactorily then Mr K would be entitled to seek 
replacement and if that is not possible then a refund. 
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr K, I’m not upholding his 
complaint. Creation has fairly accepted responsibility for repairing the sofa bed and I think 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome and I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I’m not upholding Mr K’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
