DRN-2609877
The complaint
Mr K complains that his balance transfer offer from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(Creation) wasn’t honoured.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K applied for a credit card from Creation. It offered a 12-month interest-free 
balance transfer. He completed the application and was accepted. He signed a direct debit 
form for payments to come from his bank account. The balance transfer of £3150, plus a fee 
of £94.50 was debited to the account. The direct debit wasn’t paid until September 2019. Mr 
K was charged two late payment fees. The balance transfer offer was withdrawn. His credit 
file was marked with two late payments.
Mr K complained in February 2020. He didn’t notice anything was wrong until September 
2019 – when he returned from holiday and he got texts from Creation. He said he’d set up 
the direct debit properly. It wasn’t his fault it was been cancelled. He shouldn’t have to pay 
interest on the debt or pay late fees. Nor should his credit file be affected. He said he’d tried 
to sort things out with Creation before sending in a formal complaint. He’s told us that he’s 
been charged interest of £601.37 up to September 2020.
Creation replied in April 2020. They said the direct debit was set up on 21 June 2019, but it 
was cancelled by either Mr K or his bank on 28 June 2019. No payments were received in 
August 2019 or September 2019. So, two late fees of £12 were charged. The direct debit 
was set up again when Mr K called them on 10 September 2019. One late fee was refunded 
as a gesture of goodwill. Because payments had been missed, the balance transfer offer 
had been withdrawn in line with its terms and conditions. Mr K’s credit file had been marked 
as they had an obligation to do this. They didn’t think they’d done anything wrong.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
September 2020 – he said that he could see that Creation hadn’t cancelled the direct debit in 
June 2019. It had been reinstated in September 2019. He said Creation could withdraw the 
balance transfer offer because of the missed payments – its Terms and Conditions covered 
this. They could also charge late fees – and mark Mr K’s credit file. So, he thought Creation 
had acted reasonably and had done nothing wrong.
Mr K asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K’s frustration here. He successfully applied for a new credit card with a 
balance transfer offer. And, as a result of the direct debit getting cancelled, he lost the 
balance transfer offer, paid interest and late fees – and had his credit file marked with late 
payments. He has complained also to his bank about what happened – that’s also being 
reviewed by this service.
The key issue here is the cancellation of the direct debit in June 2019. Creation have 
showed us their records which show that it was set up on 21 June 2019 and then cancelled 
on 28 June 2019. The description is stated as “code 1”. Creation have told us this means 
“cancellation instructed by payer”.  In Creation’s final response, they said the direct debit 
was “cancelled by you/your Bank”. So, it seems clear that the direct debit wasn’t cancelled 
by Creation. So, they’re not at fault. 
Creation could withdraw its balance transfer offer – this is in its terms and conditions which 
say: ‘If you break this Agreement….If you fail to make prompt payment of the monthly 
payment or if you, or an Additional Cardholder, break any other term of this Agreement …, 
we shall be entitled:…
(b) to charge interest forthwith at the standard rate for Standard Purchases on any
Promotional Purchases and/or Balance Transfers then outstanding on the Account”
The terms and conditions also give them the right to charge late fees and advise credit 
reference agencies. Also, all lenders have an obligation to report accurate data to credit 
reference agencies.
I can only ask Creation to change something if they’ve done something wrong or treated Mr 
K unfairly. And I can’t say they have here. They didn’t cancel the direct debit. But because of 
its cancellation - payments were missed. And Creation were entitled to stop the interest-free 
balance offer and charge Mr K interest at its normal commercial rate. They charged Mr K two 
late fees of £12 but refunded one of these as a gesture of goodwill. And they had a duty to 
advise credit reference agencies of the late payments. 
So, while Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, I’m not asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman
