DRN-3242031
The complaint
Ms P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Ms P purchased an item of furniture from a retailer and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation. The furniture was broken when it arrived. Ms P complained to the retailer, who 
upheld her complaint and said it would carry out repairs.
Repairs were due to take place in December 2019 but were delayed because parts needed 
to be ordered. The retailer went into administration before the repairs were carried out.
Ms P raised a section 75 claim with Creation. Creation didn’t respond within the timescale 
set by the FCA so Ms P brought her complaint to this service. She says the goods still 
haven’t been repaired and she wants a full refund.
Creation didn’t respond to this service’s request for a case file, so the investigator completed 
the investigation based on the available information. The investigator said that the goods 
weren’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that there had been a breach of 
contract. The investigator also said that Creation had had long enough to arrange a repair 
which hadn’t happened, so Ms P should be entitled to a full refund together with 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There’s no dispute that Ms P was supplied with a faulty item. Creation hasn’t provided an 
explanation for why it hasn’t arranged a repair.
Based on what I’ve seen, I think creation has had long enough to arrange a repair. Ms P has 
retained the item and hasn’t got room in her house to get a replacement until this matter is 
resolved. I don’t think it’s fair to expect Ms P to wait any longer for a repair.
Putting things right
Because Ms P was supplied with faulty goods, a breach of contract has occurred, and 
Creation must put things right. I think Creation has had a reasonable time to arrange repairs, 
but it hasn’t done so. In the circumstances, I think its fair to ask Creation to issue a full 
refund and pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms P.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Refund the full purchase price of £373.60 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Arrange for the goods to be collected at no cost to Ms P or pay Ms P the sum of £50 so she 
can arrange for the goods to be disposed of
Pay compensation of £150 to reflect the delays in resolving the matter and for the trouble 
and upset caused to Ms P
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
