DRN-1954161
The complaint
Miss C complains that a TV she obtained with credit provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (“Creation”) wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She wants to return the TV and she 
wants Creation to refund what she’s paid.
What happened
Miss C obtained a TV using finance provided by Creation in February 2019. She said that 
just over a month later it developed a fault – an intermittent white line across the screen - 
and she tried to return the TV to the retailer. But the retailer referred her to the manufacturer. 
The manufacturer attempted to fix the fault on four occasions – it replaced cables, the TV 
box, the circuit board, and the screen. But Miss C says the fault remains. The manufacturer 
told Miss C to return the TV to the retailer for a refund, but the retailer wouldn’t give her her 
money back without a repair code from the manufacturer, which it seems the manufacturer 
was unable to supply.
Miss C complained to Creation. It didn’t agree to refund Miss C. It said she should obtain the 
fault code from the manufacturer which should allow the retailer to provide her with a refund.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Miss C had provided enough evidence to show she’d been provided with a TV that was 
inherently faulty. He recommended Creation should refund all payments made by Miss C, 
plus interest, and pay her £100 for the trouble and upset she’d been caused.
Creation didn’t agree. It said, in summary, that:

It hadn’t seen anything from the manufacturer to say the reason for the fault.

The retailer should be given the opportunity to review the repairs or to replace the TV.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what’s fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Miss C brings her complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Miss C 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also 
bring that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint 
I must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that 
“the quality of goods is satisfactory”. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the TV wasn’t of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
I don’t find that the TV was of satisfactory quality. It developed a fault around a month after it 
had been supplied. Miss C has provided evidence to show that the manufacturer attempted 
repairs on four separate occasions and that these repairs were unsuccessful. 
Understandably, Miss C has lost faith in the manufacturer so does not want a replacement 
TV, even if this was to be offered by the retailer as Creation have suggested.
Miss C has done everything the retailer and the manufacturer have recommended. I think it 
would have been reasonable to give them one opportunity to carry out a repair before asking 
for a refund. Miss C gave them four opportunities and each time the repair failed. In the 
circumstances, I find it’s fair and reasonable that Creation should provide a refund. And that 
it should compensate her for the trouble and upset she’s been caused.
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance should:
1.
Cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Miss C.
2.
Remove the finance agreement from Miss C’s credit file.
3.
Arrange the collection of the TV at no cost to Miss C.
4.
Refund Miss C’s deposit in full; adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement. *
5.
Refund all payments made by Miss C, adding 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement. *
6.
Pay Miss C £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation Consumer Finance must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax 
it’s taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
