DRN-3354070
The complaint
Miss W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd cancelled a direct debit and set 
up a payment break for a personal loan she’d with them.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss W said she called Creation after she’d been told they’d cancelled her 
direct debit for a personal loan she’d with them. Miss W then found that Creation had applied 
a payment break to her personal loan account. She complained to them
Creation said they’d received a report to cancel the direct debit mandate for her personal; 
loan account, and they were bound to take this action. They said they’d listened to Miss W’s 
call with them and accepted that the payment break had been implemented in error. They 
offered Miss W £75 in recognition of this and gave assurance that her credit file wouldn’t be 
impacted.
Miss W wasn’t happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Creation had followed instructions they’d received to cancel the direct 
debit mandate. And their offer of £75 was fair and reasonable. So, she didn’t ask for 
Creation to do anything further.
Miss W didn’t agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss W feels strongly that Creation’s actions weren’t correct and that she’s suffered  
as a result. Firstly, I’ll explain our role, we’re an informal dispute resolution service, acting as 
an alternative to the courts. This means we’re impartial and look at both sides of the story. 
We don’t place more weight on one side’s story because of who they are. We ask questions 
and weigh up all the information we’re given. 
Having considered what has happened, I’m not upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why
Direct debit cancellation
Miss W said she’d asked to cancel a direct debit for repayment of a credit card she’d with 
Creation. But instead Creation had cancelled the direct debit for a personal loan she’d with 
them.
Direct debits are processed through a scheme called Bankers Automated Clearing Services
(BACS).  Automated Direct Debit Amendment and Cancellation (ADDAC) reports detail any 
direct debit Instructions that have been amended and/or cancelled. And it’s strongly 
recommended that direct debit changes are applied immediately to avoid the risk of 
misdirected or failed collections. In February 2021 Creation received a ADDAC report which 
showed that a direct debit instruction Miss W had with Creation had been cancelled. The 
“reason code” stated “Instruction cancelled by payer”.
Any direct debit instruction should have the account reference of the agreement as an 
identifier as it’s this reference number that would confirm which instruction was being 
cancelled. Creation has said their process is automated for actioning ADDAC reports, so for 
the credit card direct debit to be cancelled the identifier would have needed to be for that 
account. But Creation has said the identifier was for Miss W’s personal loan account. And 
that they had actioned the requested cancellation. 
I’ve thought about what might have been the cause of this problem, as it looks likely that the 
wrong identifier was applied to the direct debit instruction to cancel. The ADDACS report 
stated that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled by the payer (Miss W). Whilst I 
understand Miss W says she never requested that action for her personal loan with Creation, 
I can’t say Creation would be at fault for following the direct debit cancellation instructions 
that they were given.
As the report says it was Miss W who’d requested the cancellation, it’s reasonable to require 
a new mandate to be completed showing her consent to set it back up. So, whilst I can’t say 
what caused the direct debit to be cancelled with any certainty, I haven’t seen anything to 
suggest Creation did anything wrong in this regard. And I’m satisfied they acted reasonably 
by asking for a new mandate to be completed.
Payment break
In early March 2021 Miss W queried the cancellation of the direct debit with Creation. And 
Creation have accepted that there was an error made as a payment break was implemented 
despite Miss W not asking for this action to be taken. I can understand Miss W’s concern 
about any impact this would have on her credit history. When Miss W brought her complaint 
to Creation she was told the payment break details couldn’t be removed from her credit file 
“before the period had ended”. Creation has given assurance that this has now been 
removed (the payment break period has ended), and that there wouldn’t be any impact 
caused by this. 
I know Miss W will be disappointed by my decision. But its not our role to punish a business 
when they get something wrong. But to see whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in 
putting things right. Miss W said she continued to make her regular repayments during the 
“payment break” period so this error hasn’t caused any arrears to accrue on the account. 
And a new direct debit mandate was set up once the payment break concluded. I 
understand this has caused some trouble and upset for Miss W, Creation has accepted that 
that got things wrong and have offered to pay £75 for the trouble and upset this caused 
which I think is a reasonable offer. So, I won’t instruct them to pay anything more than this. 
But I expect this payment to now be paid by Creation to Miss W.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman
