DRN-3284995
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs P purchased an integrated television bed from a retailer and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
The bed was delivered to Mrs P’s son’s address. Soon after delivery, Mrs P’s son 
experienced issues with the television not turning on automatically when it was raised. He 
reported the issue to the retailer who arranged for the bed to be inspected. Mrs P’s son 
received conflicting information from the technicians as to whether the television was faulty 
or not.
Mrs P wasn’t satisfied with the outcome of the inspection and contacted Creation to raise a 
section 75 claim.
In response, Creation said it had spoken to the retailer, who advised that the television was 
working as it should. Based on this, Creation rejected the section 75 claim.
Mrs P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked at the retailer’s terms and conditions and 
said that the television supplied was of reduced functionality and therefore not of an equal 
standard. He recommended that Creation replaced the television with one that automatically 
turned on when raised.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it didn’t think it had an obligation to deal with the claim under 
section 75 because the credit agreement was in the name of Mrs P but the television bed 
had been supplied to her son. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs P’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the section 75 claim wasn’t 
fair or reasonable. 
In order to satisfy the requirements to bring a section 75 claim, there has to be a debtor – 
creditor-supplier relationship. In this case, it was Mrs P who entered into the finance 
agreement and the goods were delivered to her son’s address. Creation has said that 
because of this, there’s been a break in the DCS relationship. I’ve thought about this. But 
Mrs P’s son’s name doesn’t appear on any of the contractual documents, such as the 
invoice. On the evidence, Mrs P entered into the contract and became the debtor under the 
finance agreement and had the goods delivered to a different address. Mrs P’s son’s name 
isn’t on the invoice or the contract with the retailer, so I’m satisfied that the DCS requirement 
is met here.
I’ve gone on to consider whether there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Mrs P’s son 
has said that when the television bed was demonstrated to him in store, the television 
automatically turned itself on when it raised from the bed. But the television supplied with his 
bed doesn’t do this and he has to turn it on manually.
Creation has said that two types of television are supplied with the bed, one which turns on 
automatically and one which isn’t. It said the type of television wasn’t guaranteed at the point 
of supply.
I’ve looked at the terms and conditions of the contract. Under product specification, it says 
the retailer may supply goods with minor differences in specification and that where this is 
the case, any differences will result in the goods being of equal or improved standard. 
Creation has said that these terms mean that the retailer is allowed to supply a different type 
of television. I disagree. The television supplied here is not of an equal or improved 
standard, because it has reduced functionality insofar as it doesn’t turn on automatically. 
Because of this, I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract.  
Putting things right
To put things right, creation should arrange for the television to be replaced with a television 
which automatically turns on when it is raised from the bed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
arrange for the television to be replaced with a model which turns on automatically when 
raised.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
