DRN-3287515
The complaint
Miss S believes Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan 
she’d applied for.
What happened
In February 2018, Miss S purchased replacement windows and doors from a company I’ll 
call E. And she took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for the goods and 
installation. The loan was for £7,091 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £181.17.
Miss S has complained Creation didn’t act responsibly when approving the loan. She said 
the salesperson for E pressured her into purchasing something she couldn’t afford, and she 
thinks this unaffordability should’ve been obvious to Creation. She’s also complained about 
the interest rate and the “extortionate costs” associated with the loan.
Miss S was also unhappy with the installation work done by E. She’s said that the installation 
wasn’t completed correctly, and what work was carried out was done to a poor standard.
As E had ceased trading, Creation referred Miss S to E’s insurer, who arranged for the work 
that’d been carried out to be inspected. The inspection company, who I’ll call R, agreed that 
rectification work needed completing, which they would do. But they also said a door needed 
replacing, but they couldn’t do this as they only dealt with repairs and not replacement. 
Miss S wasn’t happy with the response she’d had from Creation, and she brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Creation have said they’re unable to provide copies of the credit check or income validation 
check they carried out at the time Miss S’s application was approved. But they’ve provided 
screen shots showing what they recorded for Miss S’s income and expenditure at the time. 
And, based on this, they considered the loan was affordable.
However, our investigator said she was unable to see if what Creation had recorded was an 
accurate representation of Miss S’s financial circumstances, because they couldn’t evidence 
the checks they’d done. So, she considered Miss S’s bank statements and an up to date 
copy of her credit report, which showed the information that would’ve been present at the 
time of the application.
Based on this information, the investigator said Miss S’s income was lower than Creation 
had recorded, and her monthly expenditure was higher. And she’d seen nothing to show that 
Creation had asked Miss S about her living costs. Because of this, the investigator didn’t 
think that the loan was affordable for Miss S
So, she said that Creation should refund any difference between the amount she’d paid to 
date and what she’d originally borrowed, plus interest. She also thought that Creation should 
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss S’s credit file.
The investigator also said that, given R’s report, she was satisfied there was a problem with 
the installation. And it was clear what work needed to be done to rectify this. So, she said 
Creation should arrange for the repairs and the door replacement to take place and pay Miss 
S an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience she’d been caused.
Miss S didn’t agree with the investigator. She said that she’s since discovered the windows 
didn’t need to be changed, only the glass. She also said she had to take multiple days off 
work to meet with E to discuss the poor installation, and this stopped her being able to sell 
her house. So, she thinks that the recommended £300 is insufficient for the stress she’s had 
to deal with.
Miss S said she thought the whole amount of the loan should be refunded, and not just the 
interest. And she provided payslips to show her income, so that the cost of her time off work 
could be calculated. Based on this, the investigator recommended that Creation increase the 
compensation to £500 and pay Miss S an additional £1,344 for the time she needed to take 
off work to meet with E about the poor quality installation. Which Miss S agreed with.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigator. Because of this, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
approval of the loan
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide what’s fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1.
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
S would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a.
if so, did Creation make a fair lending decision?
b.
if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Creation didn’t act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss S’s 
application, I’ll also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
There’s no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but I’d expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers’ personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Creation haven’t been able to provide the details of the checks they did when they approved 
the loan for Miss S. While they’ve said they did a credit check and verified her income, due 
to the time passed they no longer have this information available. But they have provided 
details of the information they recorded from these checks.
Creation recorded that Miss S was a full-time employee, who’d been with her current 
employer for 14 years, and had an income of £63,000 a year (which they’ve said they 
would’ve validated). They recorded her monthly expenditure as £181.17 for a loan and 
£1,568 for her mortgage. But they’d not recorded any information about Miss S’s other 
expenditure, for example council tax and utility bills. Based on this information, Creation 
approved the loan.
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit file from September 2021. This shows that, at the 
time she applied for the loan with Creation, she had the loan and mortgage Creation had 
recorded. But it also shows she’d exceeded the credit limit on one of her credit cards.
As Creation haven’t been able to provide evidence of the checks they’ve done, I can’t say 
whether these checks were reasonable and proportionate. But the credit check they did 
would likely have shown Miss S had recently exceeded her credit card limit. Which could be 
an indicator of financial difficulties.
What’s more, although the loan payments were relatively small in comparison to Miss S’s 
income, I don’t think this is enough to say it was affordable. And I’d expect Creation to obtain 
full details of Miss S’s regular expenditure to ensure affordability. 
Because of the above, I don’t think Creation should’ve approved this loan without carrying 
out any additional checks.
Would any additional checks Creation could’ve done have shown that Miss S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Miss S has provided us with her bank statements for the period 15 December 2017 to 13 
February 2018. If Creation had asked for more information about Miss S’s income and 
expenditure, then these bank statements give a good indication of what Creation would likely 
have discovered.
The bank statements show Miss S had an average monthly income of £3,170. Her mortgage 
was £1,667 and her loan was £116. However, Miss S was also paying an average of £437 to 
her credit cards, £234 for council tax and utility bills, and £101 for insurances and 
professional fees. In addition, Miss S was paying £15 for a mobile phone, £10 in overdraft 
fees, and £225 repaying a loan from a family member.
So, based on the bank statements, after paying her £2,805 monthly outgoings, she would be 
left with £365 for transport, food, clothing, and to cover Creation’s monthly payment of £181. 
Miss S has said she paid £224 a month in public transport costs alone.
The banks statements also show that Miss S was regularly overdrawn. Miss S has provided 
credit card statements for the same period as the bank statements, and these show she’d 
exceeding her credit limit on one card and was near her limit on the other card.
Taking all of this into consideration, if Creation had obtained full details of Miss S’s monthly 
expenditure, it would’ve been clear that the loan wasn’t affordable. So, I’m satisfied that 
Creation shouldn’t have approved this loan.
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I haven’t seen anything to make me think Creation acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
quality of the goods and the installation work
Miss S has raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. One 
effect of section 75 is that (subject to certain limitations), a person who pays a supplier for 
goods or services with their credit card can claim against the card issuer if the supplier 
doesn’t keep to the agreement or misrepresents it.
My role isn’t to apply section 75 here. Rather, I’m required to decide what, if anything, 
Creation should do to resolve Miss S’s complaint. In doing that, I must decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law 
includes section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the goods should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied/installed. And if it wasn’t, as the creditor, Creation jointly liable under section 
75 for breach of contract or misrepresentation. What’s satisfactory is determined by things 
such as what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, 
and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed that the fault was present when 
the goods were supplied and installed, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a 
fault is identified after the first six months, it’s implied that it’s for Miss S to show that it was 
present when the goods were supplied and installed. So, if I thought the goods were faulty 
when Miss S took possession of them, or that they weren’t installed with reasonable care 
and skill, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
Miss S has provided photos of the issues with the door and windows that were installed by 
E, as well as of the damage that was done during the fitting process. She’s also provided an 
undated report from E, detailing the rectification work that needed to be done, due to 
damaged frames and incorrect fitting. While this report is undated, based on what I’ve seen, 
I believe the inspection took place in June 2018, shortly after the installation took place.
I’ve also seen a copy of the report from R, dated 26 November 2021. This says that the door 
was bowed, and the frame not fitted very well. And this means Miss S has problems locking 
and unlocking the door. It also says the door isn’t what Miss S ordered, was lacking the 
required drainage holes, and was damaged on installation. With regards to the windows, the 
report says there was an ongoing issue with faulty hinges on one window, and the sealant 
was split and damaged on others. R said that repair works were needed to the windows, but 
a replacement door would be required.
Based on this evidence, I’m satisfied the windows and door weren’t installed with reasonable 
care and skill. And Creation need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
As I don’t think the finance should’ve been approved, I’ve thought about how to put Miss S 
back in the position he would’ve been in if this hadn’t happened. But I’ve also taken into 
consideration that Miss S had the benefit of the money she borrowed, by way of the 
replacement windows and door. So, while Miss S thinks the whole loan should be refunded 
to her, I’m satisfied she should pay back the capital amount she borrowed.
Miss S also considered the loan was mis-sold to her by E. As I don’t think this should’ve 
been approved, and because I’m asking Creation to put this right, I won’t also be considering 
any potential mis-sale.
With regards to any compensation, under section 75, I need to consider what a court would 
likely award in similar circumstances. 
Miss S has lived with the poor installation for more than three years, during which time she’s 
struggled with closing windows and locking her door. The poor fitting has also caused drafts 
throughout her house. So, I’m satisfied she’s been significantly impacted by what happened 
and has been caused both inconvenience and physical discomfort. Given this, I’m satisfied 
that the £500 recommended by the investigator is reasonable in the circumstances.
In addition, Miss S has said she had to take seven days off work to meet with E, in an 
attempt to resolve the situation. Which didn’t happen and E became completely 
unresponsive. The investigator has recommended that Creation compensate Miss S for this 
time off work. But the courts are unlikely to make an award for a non-pecuniary (non-
financial) loss.  So, while I appreciate that Miss S may not have wanted to use her holidays 
for meeting with E, she hasn’t suffered a financial loss as her holidays wouldn’t have earned 
her anything had she not taken them. Because of this, I don’t agree with the investigator that 
Creation should compensate Miss S for this.
I’ve asked both Creation and Miss S for any comments they had on this specific point. And 
neither party responded to me request. Given this, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing more to pay;

add up the total amount of money Miss S has paid them for the loan, and deduct the 
amount of money she received:
a) if this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, Creation should 
refund any overpayments, along with 8% simple interest a year calculated from 
the date of the overpayments to the date of the refund †; or
b) if this results in an outstanding capital balance, Creation should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Miss S;

remove any adverse information relating to this loan from Miss S’s credit file;

arrange for the repairs to the windows, and the replacement door to be fitted, as per 
the report from R, within a reasonable amount of time and at no cost to Miss S; and

pay Miss S an additional £500 compensation for the physical discomfort and 
inconvenience she’d been caused.
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
