 
 
DRN-4949191 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr D is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality. 
 
What happened 
In June 2023, Mr D was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. He paid an advance payment of £4,301 and the agreement was for £35,694 over 
49 months; with 48 monthly payments of £544.16 and a final payment of £21,286.54. At the 
time of supply, the car was almost five years old, and had done 35,169 miles (according to 
the MOT record for 26 June 2023). 
 
The car broke down in November 2023 and was recovered to a garage. An inspection 
showed that the turbo on the car had failed, causing a reduction in the oil being supplied to 
the engine and subsequent damage to the crankshaft. Mr D was told the engine would need 
to be rebuilt, and that this would cost over £9,000. At the time of the breakdown the car had 
done around 39,000 miles. 
 
Mr D complained to Creation, but they didn’t respond to this within the timescales allowed. 
So, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
 
Our investigator said the engine had failed within six months of the car being supplied to Mr 
D. And, with less than 40,000 miles on the clock, such a failure couldn’t be reasonably 
expected. As such, the investigator said it was for Creation to show the engine didn’t fail due 
to something that was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr D. 
 
Creation provided a report from a garage that said the turbo had failed, which had led to 
additional damage to the crankshaft and conrod. However, this report didn’t speculate on 
whether the car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr D. As Creation 
weren’t able to show this, and as the car hadn’t been repaired, the investigator said that Mr 
D should be able to reject it, receive a refund of the deposit he paid, receive a refund of the 
payments he’d made since the car broke down in November 2023, and receive an additional 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’d been caused. 
 
Creation didn’t agree with the investigator’s opinion. They said they were in the process of 
arranging for another independent inspection on the car, but that they would look to repair 
the car instead. Given the delays, the investigator explained why they didn’t think a repair 
was reasonable, and that rejection was the most appropriate resolution. 
 
Creation still didn’t agree and said that Mr D hadn’t raised the complaint with them until he’d 
been in possession of the car for seven months. They also said that, as they’d offered repair 
some five months after the complaint was made to them, this was within a reasonable 
timeframe, so they should be allowed to repair the car. 
 
Because Creation didn’t agree with the investigator’s opinion, this matter has been passed to 
me to decide. 
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, I’ve reached my view on the balance of probabilities – what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
 
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr D was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (‘CRA’) says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, 
Creation are responsible. What’s satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time. 
 
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was faulty 
when Mr D took possession of it, or that the car wasn’t sufficiently durable, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this 
right. 
 
Before I explain why I’ve reached my decision, I think it’s important for me to explain how 
I’ve applied the CRA. The CRA is clear that, if a fault occurs within the first six months of 
supply, it’s for Creation to show the fault wasn’t present or developing at the point of supply - 
the test set out by the CRA is not if the fault is reported within the first six months. As such, 
while Mr D initially complained to the supplying dealership, and didn’t complaint to Creation 
until February 2024 – more than six months after the date of supply – it doesn’t mean that 
Creation doesn’t have to prove the car was of a satisfactory quality. 
 
In this instance, it’s not disputed there was a problem with the car. What’s more, Creation 
haven’t provided anything to show that the car was satisfactory at the point of supply, and 
they are also now arguing for the right to repair. As such, I’m satisfied I don’t need to 
consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, I’ll focus on what I think 
Creation should do to put things right. 
 
Putting things right 
In their comments on the investigator’s opinion, Creation are saying they should have the 
right of repair. Section 24(5) of the CRA says “a consumer who has … the right to reject may 
only exercise [this] and may only do so in one of these situations – (a) after one repair or 
replacement, the goods do not confirm to contract.” This is known as the single chance of 
repair. And this applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., it’s not a single 
chance of repair for the dealership AND a single chance of repair for Creation – the first 
attempted repair is the single chance at repair. 
 
 
 
Neither the dealership nor Creation have attempted any repair on the car. As such, I’m in 
agreement with Creation that the single chance of repair hasn’t happened, and section 24(5) 
of the CRA affords this right to them. However, Section 23(2) of the CRA states: 
 
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must – 
 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer 
 
It’s not disputed that the car broke down in November 2023, nor that the dealership was 
aware of this breakdown at the time. Despite this, they didn’t make any offer to repair the 
car. Creation was made aware of the issue in February 2024, and at that time they were also 
made aware the car had broken down in November 2023. Despite this, they waited until July 
2023, and after our investigator had issued their opinion before they offered repair. As such, 
this offer was made around five months after Creation received Mr D’s complaint, and 
around nine months after they were aware the car had broken down. 
 
I’m not satisfied that Creation made this offer within a reasonable time scale, and their 
arguments that Mr D delayed in raising the complaint with them doesn’t change this. As 
such, Creation failed to comply with Section 23(2)(a) of the CRA. And, in these 
circumstances, Mr D should be able to reject the car. 
 
The car has been off the road and undrivable since late November 2023 and, since then, Mr 
D wasn’t supplied with a courtesy car. As such, he was paying for goods he was unable to 
use. As, for the reasons already stated, I’m satisfied the car was off the road due to it being 
of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and as Creation failed to keep Mr D 
mobile; I’m satisfied they should refund the payments he made during this period. 
 
I also think Mr D should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience He has been 
caused by the above. But crucially, this compensation must be fair and reasonable to both 
parties, falling in line with our service’s approach to awards of this nature, which is set out 
clearly on our website and so, is publicly available. 
 
I note our investigator also recommended Creation pay Mr D an additional £250, to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience he’s been caused by the complaint. And having 
considered this recommendation, I think it’s a fair one that falls in line with our service’s 
approach and what I would’ve directed, had it not already been put forward. 
 
I think this is significant enough to recognise the worry and upset Mr D would’ve felt by 
having to arrange for alternative transport while his car was off the road. And I think it also 
fairly reflects Mr D’s frustration with the poor communication he’s received. So, this is a 
payment I’m directing Creation to make. 
 
Therefore, if they haven’t already, Creation should: 
 
• 
end the agreement with nothing more to pay; 
• 
collect the car at no cost to Mr D; 
• 
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr D’s credit file; 
• 
refund the deposit Mr D paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds paid 
through a dealer contribution, Creation is entitled to retain that proportion of the 
deposit); 
• 
refund the payments Mr D has made from 27 November 2023 to the date on which 
the agreement is ended; 
 
 
• 
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr D made 
the payments to the date of the refund†; and 
• 
pay Mr D an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality (Creation 
must pay this compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr D 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this date, Creation must also pay 8% 
simple yearly interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to 
the date of payment†). 
 
†If HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest, Creation must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr D’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2025. 
  
 
Andrew Burford 
Ombudsman 
 
