 
 
DRN-5020729 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mrs H has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs H throughout.  
 
What happened 
On 12 December 2015, Mrs H agreed to a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation for a 
solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M”. The loan amount was for 
£10,690 and the total amount payable under the agreement was £16,791.60 and it was 
due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £139.93. 
 
Mrs H complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs H on 23 July 2021. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 20 October 2021. Creation considered Mrs H had brought her 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on 
dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation 
Act (‘LA’). Mrs H brought her complaint to this service on 21 December 2021 as she was 
unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs H asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs H’s complaint, she ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs H and 
Creation.  
On 10 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs H keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs H had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mrs H accepted the investigator’s view. On 2 March 2023, Creation told us it disagreed 
with our assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
 
 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 29 August 2024, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mrs H’s complaint. I set out an extract below: 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My provisional findings 
 
Jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs H’s s.75 
claim on 20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs H brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 
December 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs H. Here the relationship 
came to an end when the loan was repaid. Mrs H told us that the loan was still being 
repaid when the complaint came to us in December 2021. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
H.  
 
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs H has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity she would receive and the savings 
she would make. Whilst Mrs H told us she had been keen on green energy in general, she 
had no meaningful prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels until she was cold called by M 
about the system she bought.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs H to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs H on 12 March 2015, sets out Mrs H’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mrs H’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs H to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs H would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision. 
 
I’ve also looked at M’s website from around the time of the sale. The cache of the website 
I have seen is from February 2015 (a month before the agreement was signed). I am 
satisfied on this occasion it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mrs H. 
 
On the page the deals with solar power, it says: 
 
“Installing Solar PV panels will not only bring down the cost of supplying electricity to your 
home or business, but will actually bring long-term financial benefits by earning you 
money for years to come. 
 
Not only will Solar PV panels help you save money on bills, they will also generate you 
tax-free income, and you will get a good return on investment for 20 years under 
Government funding incentives to increase levels of green energy.” 
 
But what are those good levels of return? The same page also includes this, 
 
“THE BENEFITS OF SOLAR PV PANELS ARE: 
 
• 
Potential return on investment of up to 15 per cent   
• 
Tax-free income, guaranteed for 20 years 
• 
Planning permission rarely required 
• 
Most installations are completed in a week 
• 
Systems are flexible and fit to scale 
• 
Low maintenance” 
 
Taking all of the promotional material into account, the evidence suggests to me that it 
supports the testimony provided by Mrs H. Mrs H told us she was told that the solar 
panels would provide a significant income and the details I have seen suggest that the 
 
 
rate of income was indicated to be greater than the interest rate Mrs H was to pay on the 
loan she would need to take out to provide the solar panels.  
 
And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mrs H dealt with would’ve 
said similar things to those M produced in its promotional literature. I note that there was 
little or no words of caution about the likely performance of solar panels on M’s website 
from around the time of the sale.  
 
As mentioned above, Mrs H told us that B told her the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off the cost of the loan. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs H’s 
testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I 
have noted that Creation has not responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs H said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mrs H left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £139.93, payable for 10 years. Given her lack of meaningful prior 
interest and the financial burden she took on, and in the absence of any evidence from 
Creation to the contrary, I find Mrs H’s account of what she was told by M to be credible 
and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she 
would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the reassurances 
Mrs H said she received from M.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,679.16 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
H’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs H’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments. The evidence suggests the solar system was not 
self-funding. 
 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs H’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs H’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs H. 
 
Considering Mrs H’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs H a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs H’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs H was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs H went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs H’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs H in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
 
 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs H and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs H and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs H a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs H’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs H’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mrs H has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs 
H. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs H received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs H received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs H may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available.  
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs H made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs H’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and 
assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 10 year loan 
period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs H should have repaid each month towards the 
 
 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs H.  
• 
Give Mrs H the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan 
amount, recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a 
refund of the overpayments. 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs H 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs H how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 12 September 2024. Mrs H has accepted my provisional findings. 
Creation has not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or 
asked for an extension to do so.  
 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mrs H’s complaint, I have nothing 
further to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mrs 
H’s complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed 
above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mrs H’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
 
 
