 
 
DRN-5566815 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P complains about the quality of a car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF).  
What happened 
In February 2024, Mr P acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with CCF. 
The car was about four years old and had travelled around 80,709 miles when it was 
supplied. The cash price of the car was £11,145. An advanced payment of £1,000 is listed, 
so the total amount financed on the agreement was £10,145 payable over 47 monthly 
repayments of £272.58 followed by a final repayment of £273.58. 
In an email dated 24 February 2024, Mr P complained to the dealership that he was 
experiencing issues with the seatbelt warning sensor being disconnected.  
In June 2024 Mr P contacted the dealership again to report his dissatisfaction with the 
following issues: 
• 
missing wiring for seat belt warning lights 
• 
noise under the car when driving  
• 
stiff doors 
• 
satellite navigation (satnav) screen losing connection 
• 
car drags when driving slowly 
• 
engine management light (EML) and emissions lights come on  
 
The car was brought into the dealership in June 2024 where initial repairs were carried out. 
An email from the dealership in June 2024 confirmed the car was booked in for 27 June 
2024. Mr P said he was told the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and AdBlue injectors were 
cleaned and AdBlue topped up.  
In an email to the dealership dated 16 July 2024 Mr P said his car broke down on the 
motorway for a suspected failed Turbo. Mr P provided a roadside recovery invoice dated 14 
July 2024 which didn’t specify the reason for recovery but had a recorded mileage of 83,318. 
A third-party garage advised the issue was that AdBlue was added to the fuel tank which 
caused the engine to seize. 
The dealership felt the issue may have been caused by Mr P incorrectly fuelling the car. 
However, as CCF hadn’t yet provided a response to Mr P’s complaint, it was brought to our 
service for investigation. 
The Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that the 
initial repairs to the car had failed because they weren’t carried out with reasonable care and 
skill, the investigator believed it was likely that the fuel was contaminated during the repairs.  
The investigator recommended CCF facilitate a rejection of the car by doing the following: 
• 
end the agreement  
 
 
• 
collect the car  
• 
refund any deposit paid by Mr P 
• 
refund to Mr P all monthly payments for the period from 14 July 2024 to the date of 
settlement as he reasonably stopped using the car at this point; 
• 
refund to Mr P the payments he made to towards road tax and car insurance from 14 
July 2024 to the date of settlement as he reasonably stopped using the car at this 
point. 
• 
pay Mr P £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
• 
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement. 
• 
remove any adverse information from Mr P’s credit file in relation to the agreement. 
 
Mr P accepted this recommendation. However, CCF didn’t. CCF felt that the emissions and 
EML issues were raised in June 2024 after Mr P was able to use the car for around 3,000 
miles so it was unlikely to be present at the point of supply, and the initial issues raised were 
only cosmetic in nature. CCF said the dealership had never attended to the AdBlue system 
as they only completed a DPF regeneration and only advised Mr P that the car would require 
AdBlue. CCF also believed that Mr P wouldn’t have been able to use the car for as long as 
17 days had AdBlue been put in the fuel tank, as it would be unlikely to have run for that 
long.  
In March 2025, Mr P told the Investigator that he’d be willing to amend the recommendations 
made in the Investigator’s assessment to: 
• 
e
nding the agreement 
• 
c
ollecting the car 
• 
r
efund of the deposit 
• 
r
efund of monthly repayments from 14 July 2024, when he stopped using it 
• 
r
emoval of any adverse information on his credit file 
 
CCF didn’t accept the counteroffer to resolve the complaint, and the Investigator didn’t think 
the information provided by CCF made a difference to his findings, so the complaint was 
referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstly, I acknowledge what Mr P has told us about his medical conditions, and I’m sorry to 
hear about this. I recognise this would likely have made things more difficult for him. If he 
hasn’t already done so, Mr P may decide to seek further support with his situation from 
recognised organisations. Further information about this can be found on our website at the 
following address: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/accessibility/additional-support 
 
 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I’ve thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.  
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Mr P complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so I’m satisfied we can consider Mr P’s complaint about CCF. 
CCF is also the supplier of the goods under this agreement, and is responsible for a 
complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described”. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality.  
 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicle’s history.  
 
Here, Mr P acquired a used car which had covered 80,709 miles and which cost £11,145. 
So, I think a reasonable person would not have the same expectation of quality in 
comparison to a newer model, which had less mileage. But I still think they would expect the 
car to be free from any major defects and would expect trouble free motoring for both some 
time and distance.  
From the information provided I’m persuaded there was an issue with the vehicle’s engine. 
This is apparent from a garage invoice provided by CCF which advised the exhaust rota had 
snapped causing consequential damage. AdBlue had been put in the diesel tank causing 
further issues. Having considered the car had a fault, I’ve considered whether it was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply.  
 
Satisfactory quality 
The main issue which caused the failure of the vehicle’s engine hasn’t been specifically 
confirmed by an expert. Although the garage invoice dated 13 October 2024 confirms there 
were a number of issues identified during an investigation into the breakdown: 
• 
Seeping oil from joints 
• 
Exhaust rota snapped  
• 
Damage to Hego sensor 
• 
Engine oil in cat an DPF 
• 
Contaminated oil in sump 
• 
AdBlue in diesel tank 
 
From the evidence here, I’m persuaded a combination of these issues had caused the 
engine’s failure. I recognise Mr P reported other issues sooner after he acquired the vehicle, 
 
 
however I think many of them could be considered as cosmetic and would likely be expected 
on a vehicle that had the same age and mileage as the one Mr P acquired. However, as the 
engine’s failure appears to be the main issue here, I’ve focused on this in my decision. 
Mr P reported the breakdown on 16 July 2024 and provided a roadside recovery invoice 
dated 14 July 2024. Emails from the dealership and from Mr P confirm the vehicle was in for 
repairs on 27 June 2024. So, I’m persuaded the brake down occurred some 17 days 
afterwards.  
Although Mr P says he was told the AdBlue injectors and DPF was attended to, the 
dealership advised in a later email that they only cleaned the DPF when the vehicle was in 
with them. The dealership believes Mr P would have done it himself. Particularly as they say 
he was able to use the vehicle for round 17 days after the repairs took place which wouldn’t 
have been possible had the fuel been contaminated during the repairs. 
In an email to the Investigator, Mr P said he hadn’t used the vehicle for the first week after its 
repair.  
Having considered all the evidence provided as mentioned earlier I’m persuaded the 
engine’s failure was through a combination of circumstances that were likely to be 
developing when the vehicle was supplied to Mr P.   
In emails from May 2024 Mr P was reporting performance issues with the vehicle which 
included knocking sounds from under the steering wheel, Mr P also shared his concerns with 
the slow gear change and intermittent revving noise. It would seem unreasonable, given Mr 
P had driven less than 3,000 miles up to the point of failure.  
I note that CCF has been unable to provide any job cards, diagnostics or independent 
inspections to evidence the issues that were being reported by Mr P and any subsequent 
repairs that were carried out. 
The CRA says: “goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within the period of 
six months beginning with the day on which the goods were delivered to the consumer must 
be taken not to have conformed to it on that day.” 
So, under the CRA, in many cases, unless a particular issue is established at the point of 
supply, it’s assumed that if a fault occurs within the first six months following supply, it would 
have been present or developing when the goods were supplied. I think it’s reasonable in the 
circumstances that there is an onus on the supplier of the goods, in this case CCF, to 
investigate or prove to a reasonable extent that the faults weren’t present or developing at 
supply. 
In the circumstances of this complaint, CCF hasn’t provided any specific evidence which 
goes some way to show that the issues with Mr P’s vehicle were caused as a result of wear 
and tear, for example, or user error. In this scenario, given there has been catastrophic 
engine failure within five months and 3,000 miles of Mr P acquiring the vehicle, and where 
the actual cause of the breakdown is inconclusive or uncertain, I think it’s reasonable to 
expect CCF should investigate and identify the root cause. I don’t think it’s reasonable or 
fair, without evidence to support, to suggest Mr P’s actions would have caused the problems. 
So, it follows that I’m persuaded from the evidence provided that the vehicle Mr P acquired 
from CCF wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. 
 
 
Putting things right 
As I’ve concluded that the vehicle wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P. 
CCF will have to put things right. 
Given the problems the vehicle had experienced, Mr P told the Investigator that he wanted to 
reject it. I think this is fair in the circumstances. So I’ll be instructing CCF, to take the car 
back and end the agreement ensuring Mr P is refunded for his deposit. 
Mr P should also be refunded for any monthly repayments he’s made from 14 July 2024 
when the vehicle broke down, I’ve seen no evidence that he has use of the vehicle since or 
that he was provided with a courtesy car. 
Mr P should also be reimbursed for any road tax and insurance from this date also, as he 
wouldn’t have had use of the car due to it being of unsatisfactory quality.  
Mr P had described the impact this situation has had on his day-to-day life and his physical 
and mental health. I’m in agreement with the Investigator that £400 in compensation is a fair 
recognition for this. 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr P’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd and 
instruct them to: 
 
• 
end the agreement  
• 
collect the car at no additional cost to Mr P  
• 
refund the deposit Mr P paid (if any part of this deposit is made up of funds paid 
through a dealer contribution, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is entitled to retain 
that proportion of the deposit) 
• 
refund to Mr P any monthly prepayments he’s made from 14 July 2024 when he 
stopped using the car to the date of settlement 
• 
reimburse to Mr P (upon proof of payment) any payments he’s made towards 
vehicle tax and insurance on this vehicle from 14 July 2024 to the date of settlement 
as he reasonably stopped using the vehicle at that point 
• 
pay Mr P £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  
• 
remove any adverse information that may have been recorded with the credit 
reference agencies in respect of the damage. 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  
 
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr P how much it’s 
taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2025. 
  
 
Benjamin John 
Ombudsman 
 
