DRN-3069030
The complaint
Miss M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd miscalculated her outstanding loan 
balance, chased her for payments after she had agreed an arrangement to pay with a debt 
collection agency, falsely accused her of ending two phone calls, and referred her debt to 
another agency while her complaint was still outstanding.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss M entered a running account credit agreement with Creation, and 
used it to purchase goods from a third party. The loan was to be repaid over 24 months. 
Miss M set up a direct debit, but some of the payments were returned, and no payments 
were made at all between May and October 2019. In October 2019 the debt was passed to a 
collection agency and a repayment plan was agreed, but Miss M complains that Creation still 
continued to try to take payments from her. The debt was later brought back to Creation in 
June 2020, but Mrs M disputed the amount which Creation said was still outstanding. She 
said Creation was trying to overcharge her by over £90.
Miss M phoned Creation to try to sort this out, but she says two phone calls were abruptly 
ended by the call handlers. She was later told that these calls had been ended by her, which 
she denies. She also says one of the call handlers agreed with her own figure for the 
outstanding balance. She complained, and while her complaint was still outstanding her debt 
was passed to a new collection agency.
Creation apologised to Miss B for its staff having told her that she had hung up on the two 
calls. It said that both of the call handlers had put Miss B on hold, and when they had 
returned to the calls they had found that the calls had been disconnected at Miss B’s end, 
which they had summarised as her having hung up. Creation accepted that she had not 
hung up, and apologised for using that term. But it did not uphold any other aspect of her 
complaint. It said that interest is charged daily, and since not all of the monthly payments 
had been made on time, extra interest had been charged on the arrears and on the returned 
direct debit fees, which accounted for the balance being higher than Miss B had expected.
After Miss B complained to our service, Creation said that it had been entitled to refer her 
debt to an agency whether or not there was a complaint outstanding. This would not interfere 
with the handling of her complaint or affect the outcome.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Creation had been entitled to charge 
Miss B extra interest, and he referred her to the clause in the credit agreement which said 
this would happen. Miss B did not accept this opinion, and she pointed out that nobody had 
addressed her complaint about Creation and Moorcroft both trying to take payments from 
her over the same period. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding balance
I have checked Creation’s balance figure myself, and it is accurate. The outstanding balance 
includes extra interest which Miss B did not take into account. (Also, Miss B’s own 
calculations were wrong, as I will explain.)
The cost of the goods Miss B purchased was £699.99. The total opening balance is given in 
the credit agreement as £840.96. I have seen another figure for that in another document, 
£841.04, but this cannot be right, because both documents agree that the loan was to be 
repaid over 24 monthly payments of £35.04, and that amount times 24 is exactly £840.96. 
So I have used the lower figure for the opening balance.
The total charge for credit is therefore the difference between £699.99 and £840.96, which is 
£140.97.
However, I have added up all of the interest which Creation charged Miss B, and it comes to 
a total of £263.73. That means Creation has charged her £122.76 in additional interest as a 
result of the returned direct debits, which it was entitled to do under the terms of the credit 
agreement.
Creation also charged Miss B a total of £110 in fees, but two fees of £30 each were refunded 
after she phoned Creation to explain her situation. Creation also credited another £50 to her 
account; this might not have been a refund of fees because it has been recorded differently 
on her payment history. Assuming it was not a refund of the remaining fees, Creation 
therefore charged her a total of £172.76 in addition to the original amount repayable. This 
means that the new total amount repayable is £1,013.72.
Not counting the returned payments, Miss B made payments adding up to £458.75. Adding 
the £50 which Creation credited to her account makes £508.75. The difference between 
£1,013.72 and £508.75 is £504.97, which is the same arrears figure that appears in 
Creation’s payment history. I am therefore satisfied that it is accurate. (It is equal to the 
figure of £484.78 which Creation gave Miss B in June 2020, plus three more months’ interest 
charged since then (£20.19), before the account was transferred to the second collection 
agency.)
In Miss B’s own calculations, she did not include the additional interest. (She also left out the 
£60 of refunds, and counted the £50 credit twice.) I don’t know why one of Creation’s call 
handlers still agreed with her figure for the outstanding balance, but I’m afraid that they were 
wrong.
Creation and the collection agency
As I’ve said, in October 2019 a collection agency was instructed to collect the debt. This 
continued until May 2020, when the agency transferred the debt back to Creation. I have 
looked at her payment history, and it shows that the last direct debit payment she made to 
Creation before October 2019 was in May 2019 – not that there were direct debits which 
were returned, but there were no payments at all. Then in October 2019 she resumed 
making payments to Creation by direct debit. This means that she must have cancelled her 
original direct debit and then set up a new one to Creation instead of to the collection 
agency.
Creation’s account notes show that the only contact it had with Miss M during that period 
(May to October 2019) was a phone call she made to Creation in November 2019 (and 
indeed Miss M has not suggested that Creation was writing to her or calling her during that 
period, only that Creation was trying to take her money). The call handler’s note of that 
phone call states that he or she told Miss M that her account was now with the agency and 
that she should be sending her payments to the agency, not to Creation.
The payments still continued until February 2020, and then stopped, and the payments from 
December 2019 had each been all returned. In May 2020 the agency returned the debt to 
Creation, and in June Creation wrote to Miss M, which was its first contact with her since the 
call in November. So Creation did not pro-actively contact Miss M while the debt was with 
the agency, and it took no action to collect money from her other than to receive her direct 
debits, which continued to happen after it had told her to stop. So I cannot uphold Miss M’s 
complaint about this issue.
Other matters
Creation was entitled to refer the debt to a second collection agency, and since this did not 
affect her complaint, no disadvantage was caused to her by doing so.
Finally, I think that Creation’s apology is fair redress for having suggested that Miss M had 
hung up on the two phone calls, and that the payment of compensation for that issue is not 
necessary.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
