DRN-2948082
Complaint
Mr P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Mr P advised added that he had repaid the Creation loan by taking out a refinance loan with 
another provider. So, our adjudicator explained to Creation that where a customer repaid a 
loan with Creation using funds from another loan, we would also expect it to compensate a 
consumer for the losses associated with that loan.
Creation said it accepted our adjudicators view of the complaint but having completed the 
above calculation, it said the amount Mr P had paid to settle his Creation loan was the same 
as the self-funding amount it calculated. So, it said Mr P had suffered no loss and there was 
no redress due. Creation did offer to pay some of the interest Mr P paid on his refinance loan 
but, it did not work out redress in accordance with our established approach to these cases. 
Mr P rejected Creation’s offer and asked it to offer him redress in accordance with our usual 
approach to these types of cases. But Creation did not respond. 
As the complaint could not be resolved, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, like our adjudicator explained, and Creation agreed to do, I 
think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr P’s complaint for 
Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr P from the solar panels over the term of the loan so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr P is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr P accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr P by way of explanation.  
As explained above, Mr P has settled the loan, so Creation offered to pay Mr P the 
difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with 8% interest. But this led to no redress being due to Mr P. 
But as Mr P has advised, he has settled the loan by refinancing, and we would expect 
Creation to also address this as part of its redress calculation. While I understand Creation 
has made an alternative offer, Mr P hasn’t accepted it. So, below I set out what we expect 
Creation to do when a consumer uses a refinance loan to repay their Creation loan. Mr P 
has supplied evidence of the refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available for Creation to uphold this 
complaint and offer compensation in line with our established approach to redress in these 
types of cases. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr P’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
