DRN-2938281
The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was supplied with a cooker which was not of satisfactory quality 
under a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a credit agreement with Creation to fund the purchase of a cooker on 7 
January 2020. 
In June 2020 Mrs D asked Creation to raise a section 75 (s75) claim because she wasn’t 
satisfied with the cooker’s performance. She said that she’d followed a recipe which said the 
cooking time of a sponge was 30 minutes at number 4, but to achieve the desired results in 
her oven, it required a further 25 minutes at number 6. 
Creation didn’t think that Mrs D had a valid s75 claim. Ultimately it responded to a 
subsequent complaint about the outcome of the claim made by Mrs D in September 2020. It 
suggested that Mrs D take the issue up with the manufacturer.
Mrs D referred the matter to this service. She explained her cooker doesn’t stay at a 
constant temperature which means she has to monitor cooking progress and turn the 
temperature up. She also said that it takes longer than it should to cook things.
Mrs D said that the cooker’s manufacturer sent an engineer to inspect it and they told her 
that that because it was a Turkish brand of cooker it would perform differently to, for 
example, a British made one. She said that the engineer would not check the thermostat to 
see if it needed calibrating. She said that the supplier had mis-sold the cooker because it 
hadn’t explained that it would work differently to a British cooker. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs D’s complaint, but they didn’t uphold it. In summary, 
they said that Mrs D’s claim had been raised just outside of six months from the point of 
supply, it had been inspected by an engineer who didn’t find it necessary to attempt repairs, 
so there wasn’t sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the cooker was not of satisfactory 
quality. They also said that they hadn’t been presented with evidence that the cooker’s 
country of origin meant it performed differently, or that the supplier had misled Ms D about it. 
Mrs D disagreed. She maintained that the cooker’s temperature was not consistent and 
clarified that the supplier ought to be clearer regarding the cooker’s level of performance. 
She also said that she would not have complained if the manufacturer’s engineer had 
replaced the thermostat.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mrs D has said I think it’s clear that she feels strongly that she ought to have a 
successful claim under s75. Mrs D has made a number of detailed submissions about why 
she thinks her claim should be successful. I won’t address every point Mrs D has raised 
because I don’t think that’s necessary to explain what I consider a fair and reasonable 
outcome is in the circumstances. I can, however, assure Mrs D that I’ve fully considered 
everything she’s said and sent us.
In deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs D’s complaint, I have to take into account 
relevant law, amongst other things. The relevant law here is s75. It makes Creation 
responsible for a breach of contract in respect of goods or services provided under Mrs D’s 
agreement. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this case. It says that for a contract 
to conform, goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied – defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. 
The CRA also contains a presumption that where goods don’t conform to the contract within 
six months of the date of supply, that they didn’t conform at the time of supply. This 
presumption applies unless it’s shown that the goods did conform to the contract at the time. 
In the specific circumstances of this case, Mrs D was supplied with a new item. So, I’d 
expect it to be free from defects for a reasonable period of time. I’d also expect it to be 
sufficiently durable.
I’m aware that Mrs D contacted Creation within six months of the point of supply – June 
2020. It seems that Mrs D may have referred the matter to the supplier, and did refer it to the 
manufacturer. It’s not clear when she did this – Creation’s records suggest it may have been 
sometime in July 2020 but Mrs D’s correspondence suggests it was June 2020.
In any case, whether Mrs D had raised the issue just within or outside of six months from 
supply, I’d have expected Creation, perhaps, to commission an inspection of the cooker 
given what Mrs D said about its performance. That is, if one hadn’t been carried out already. 
Mrs D has told us that following her contact with the manufacturer it sent an engineer to 
inspect the cooker. She told us that the engineer didn’t provide her with a report, but she has 
given us her testimony about what they said and what happened.
From what Mrs D has said, I have no doubts that she’s not satisfied with her cooker’s 
performance. But that doesn’t mean to say that the cooker isn’t of satisfactory quality. To 
establish that, I’ve based my decision on the available evidence, which is Mrs D’s testimony 
about the problem she experienced with her cooker, as well as what she’s said she was told 
by the engineer who inspected it.
From what Mrs D’s said it sounds like the cooker was covered by a manufacturer’s warranty, 
which is likely why it sent an engineer to inspect it. Mrs D has told us that the engineer didn’t 
make any repairs, specifically declining to adjust or replace the thermostat. Mrs D says that 
the engineer didn’t provide a written report, but on balance, I’m persuaded that the engineer 
likely would have attempted or recommended repairs if they’d found it necessary. 
Additionally, my interpretation of Mrs D’s account of her exchange with the engineer is that 
they told Mrs D the cooker was working satisfactorily.
I’ve also considered what Mrs D told us the engineer said about it being necessary to turn 
the cooker up higher than a British made variant to achieve the same result. I wasn’t present 
during that conversation, so I don’t know exactly what was said. In any case, even if I accept 
the engineer had said something along those lines, I don’t think it’s unreasonable to expect 
that cookers made by different manufacturers might achieve the same or similar results 
whilst using different settings. So, based on Mrs D’s account of her conversation with the 
engineer I’m not satisfied that it suggests the cooker wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator invited Mrs D to provide further evidence to support her claim that the 
cooker didn’t hold its temperature correctly, and suggested that Mrs D might be able to do 
this by supplying pictorial evidence of a thermometer showing a difference in temperature 
readings, or an independent report on the cooker. Mrs D asked this service to obtain a report 
from the manufacturer, but I think it was for Mrs D to obtain and provide such evidence, and 
she’s had sufficient opportunity to do so. Mrs D otherwise didn’t provide further evidence. 
Overall, based on what I’ve said above, I consider there to be reasonably strong evidence 
that the cooker was of satisfactory quality. I think it was for Mrs D to provide evidence to 
demonstrate that it wasn’t, but I don’t think she’s done that. As a result, I’m not persuaded 
there’s been a breach of contract. And it follows that I don’t think it was unfair for Creation to 
turn down Mrs D’s claim. 
Lastly, like our investigator, I’m not satisfied that Mrs D’s cooker was mis-represented to her. 
I say this in the most part because I’ve not seen any evidence to suggest that she was told a 
false statement of fact about the cooker’s performance. I’m also not persuaded that the 
particular brand of cooker Mrs D purchased doesn’t perform on a similar level to a British 
made equivalent, so I don’t think the supplier ought to have communicated that, as Mrs D 
suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman
