 
 
DRN-4107573 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs L has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
On 18 January 2014, Mrs L signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “Z” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
Mrs L complained to Creation, she said that she was told by Z that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, 
and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs L also believed that what happened at the time of 
the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation.  
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs L on 11 April 2022. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 24 May 2022. Creation considered Mrs L had brought her claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs L brought her 
complaint to this service on 9 June 2022 as she was unhappy with Creation’s response 
and Mrs L asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs L’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs L 
and Creation.  
 
On 12 April 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs L keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Mrs L had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mrs L accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation have now had over a year to respond to the investigator’s findings had it wished 
to. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs L’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs L’s s.75 
claim on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs L brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 9 June 
2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes 
of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs L. Here the relationship 
ended only when the loan ran to term in June 2024. Therefore, the relationship was 
ongoing when the complaint was raised on 11 April 2022. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs L.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs L has said that she was told by Z’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make.  
I haven’t seen any evidence Mrs L had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels 
before being approached by a representative of Z.  
 
 
 
I’ve looked at the documents from the time of the lending provided by Mrs L to see if there 
was anything contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t 
be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mrs L’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other 
things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the 
term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out 
clearly enough for Mrs L to be able to understand what was required to be repaid towards 
the agreement. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs L to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs L would have looked to Z’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision. There is 
nothing in the documentation I have seen that would have put Mrs L on notice that the 
solar panels were not self-funding. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but neither Creation 
nor Mrs L have provided any.  
 
However, Mrs L has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at Z’s website 
from around the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 9 
January 2014. I am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mrs L. On the front page 
there is statement that says, 
 
“Solar panels that pay for themselves… 
 
For more information click here” 
 
If you access more information you are taken to a section with many benefit-driven 
statements including, 
 
“Want your property to earn you money? Then buy solar panels and earn a tax-free 
income from sunlight with a 20 year guaranteed income. 
 
The introduction of the Government backed ‘Feed in Tariff’ gives you a whole new kind of 
investment, an investment that is 100% green, tax free, guaranteed for 20 years, index 
linked to the rate of inflation… take a look at what a ‘paid for’ solar panel system can 
provide you: 
 
• 
Earn up to £700 per year* 
• 
Up to 8-12% tax free return per year* 
• 
20 year guaranteed income 
• 
Index linked 
• 
Government backed.” 
 
Nowhere on the website is there any warning that if the solar panels were taken on 
finance that the income and savings may not be sufficient to meet the loan repayments. 
 
I accept that the above is something that Mrs L may not have seen. But I think that the 
representatives of Z are likely to have mirrored the benefit driven tone of Z’s official 
 
 
website at the time of this sale. And similarly, it seems less likely that Z’s representatives 
were making balanced warnings about likely performance of the solar panels, when those 
same things were entirely absent from Z’s official website. 
 
I think Z’s website supports Mrs L’s testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. 
I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to purchase the system and her savings 
on her electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme would have been a central part of 
the conversation. I also think the website supports Mrs L’s testimony that Z’s 
representative told her the monthly payments and savings she would receive would cover 
her monthly finance payments.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs L said happened. Yet with no 
meaningful prior interest, Mrs L left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of around £68 payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs L’s account of what she was told 
by Z to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t 
see why she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from Z.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs L’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £814.32 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs L’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs L’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by Z were not true. I think the salesman from Z must reasonably 
have been aware that Mrs L’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs L’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs L. 
 
Considering Mrs L’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, Z’s website, and in the absence of any other evidence from 
Creation to the contrary, I think it likely Z gave Mrs L a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs L’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs L was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs L went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs L’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mrs L in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
 
 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs L and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mrs L’s s.75 complaint and her other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, 
this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Putting things right 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs L and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs L a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of Z’s assurances. That is, that Mrs L’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs L received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs L received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings.  
 
Mrs L may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But 
Creation can and should use assumptions when information is not available. I am told that 
the loan has run to term. 
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs L made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs L’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received over the 10 year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs L should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs L.  
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs L 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
 
 
give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs L’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
