DRN-2921389
The complaint
Mr C complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation’s”) decision not to support 
a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigator’s view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr C was upset about the delays and poor service he received from the supplier of his sofa 
and armchair. I don’t think those issues can fairly be considered against Creation. They’re 
jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation but they’re not responsible 
for the service Mr C received.
Creation are liable for the quality of the goods. The relevant legislation says that when goods 
are supplied with a fault the business have one opportunity to repair them. Mr C’s sofa was 
repaired so I think Creation have done all they need to in that respect.
But Mr C also had a problem with the armchair he bought. The photographs he has supplied 
show a white mark on the arm and I think it’s likely that mark was there when the chair was 
delivered as Mr C complained about it pretty quickly. There was no mention of the arm of the 
chair being loose when Mr C made his complaint to Creation so that’s not something I think it 
would be fair to ask Creation to consider. There’s no evidence that fault was present when 
the goods were supplied.
I’ve considered the redress that’s already been provided to Mr C and I think £200 is sufficient 
when considering the distress, inconvenience and quality concerns in light of the use Mr C 
has already had from the items and their original cost.
I don’t think it would be fair to ask Creation to provide any further redress.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
