DRN-3989522
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”).
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout. 
What happened
In November 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,170.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £118.09. 
In October 2021 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought P mis-sold 
the system. 
She said P told her she’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments; that she’d have a guaranteed income for 20 
years and earn up to 10% per year tax free. She said P told her the system would increase 
her property value; she’d have reduced bills; and that it could be financed. She said P sold 
the system as being self-funding and it pressured her into taking out the agreement. She 
also said Creation failed to carry out a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment; 
and she wasn’t given an adequate explanation of how the credit agreement worked. 
To give some background, Mrs S said P was installing a system at a neighbour’s house and 
it arranged a meeting with her at the time. She said P told her the system cost £9,000 and P 
produced quotes from Creation because she says she couldn’t afford it outright. Mrs S said 
she was initially unsure whether the returns would be worthwhile, but she said P flooded her 
with figures. She said P told her in the first few months she’d be out of pocket but after a few 
months she’d begin to see a profit. She said the amounts she’s received through FIT 
payments have never exceeded her outgoings in any quarter. She said she and her husband 
were receiving state retirement pensions at the time, but P repeatedly told her it would make 
financial sense taking out the system.
Mrs S said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 saying it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding. She didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the 
loan term, and so she thought P had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find 
the relationship between Mrs S and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss 
through entering into the agreement. She thought Creation should recalculate the loan 
based on known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mrs S 
pays no more than that, and she keeps the system. She also thought Creation should pay 
£100 for not looking into the s.140A claim.
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mrs S says she was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve taken 
account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement.
We’ve not been supplied a contract or other point of sale documentation that set out the 
estimated benefits of the system. So I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mrs S to 
compare her total costs against the financial benefits she was allegedly being promised. 
I’ve not seen P supplied information about the benefits, but I think Mrs S would have looked 
to P’s representative to help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they 
would bring in and how much she would benefit from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with it.
The RECC investigated P’s conduct 2014, and it determined that P was in breach of several 
sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections 
relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and 
providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
While I appreciate the findings from RECC were for different cases I think they indicate there 
were conduct concerns with P in the areas related to Mrs S’s complaint around the time it 
sold her the system. 
While I appreciate Mrs S looks like she first spoke to P when it was installing a system at a 
neighbour’s property, I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mrs S had an interest in purchasing 
a solar panel system before then. Mrs S has said she only agreed to the purchase because 
P told her the system would be self-funding. She’s also said that she and her husband were 
receiving state pension at the time which, together she said amounted to around £1,000 per 
month. She said she took early retirement and would occasionally take on some part time 
work. She said at the time they had a mobile home with associated costs of around £360 per 
month. She said she can’t remember detailed information about her other outgoings, but she 
said she was not able to save much at the time. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to 
understand why, in this particular case, Mrs S would have agreed to the installation if her 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly. I find her testimony credible. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,400 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mrs S achieved the 
benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the agreement. I 
therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. I think the salesperson 
ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement. 
I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs S’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mrs S’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mrs S.
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, the documentation; the RECC 
findings; and that Creation hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely P gave Mrs S a 
false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given her lack of 
prior interest and the financial burden she took on I find Mrs S’s account of what she was 
told by P credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t 
see why she would have seen this purchase appealing had P not given her the 
reassurances she said she received. 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
that the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mrs S also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mrs S’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs S has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mrs S

Pay Mrs S £100 compensation
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
