 
 
DRN-5511814 
 
 
Complaint 
 
Mrs C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable credit account. She’s said that it ought to have seen that 
the credit was unaffordable. 
 
Background 
Mrs C was initially provided with a credit account, with a credit limit of £3,000.00, in                
February 2022. This credit account allowed Mrs C to purchase goods from a particular 
retailer. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs C and Creation had told us. And she thought 
that Creation didn’t do anything wrong when providing Mrs C with her credit account. So she 
didn’t uphold Mrs C’s complaint.  
 
Mrs C disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review. 
 
My findings 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mrs C’s complaint. 
 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I’m not upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I’ll 
explain why in a bit more detail. 
 
Bearing in mind, Mrs C’s responses to our investigator, I think that it would be helpful for me 
to start by setting out that we consider what a firm did to check whether any repayments to 
credit were affordable (asking it to evidence what it did) and determine whether this was 
enough for the lender to have made a reasonable decision on whether to lend.  
 
Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less thorough – in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information – in the early 
stages of a lending relationship.  
 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had – such as a significantly impaired 
credit history – suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrower’s 
ability to repay.  
 
That said, I think that it is important for me to explain that our website does not provide a set 
list of mandated checks that a lender is expected to carry out on every occasion – indeed the 
regulator’s rules and guidance did not and still do not mandate a list of checks to be used. It 
simply sets out the types of things that a lender could do.  
 
 
 
It is a for a lender to decide which checks it wishes to carry out, although we can form a view 
on whether we think what was done was proportionate to the extent it allowed the lender to 
reasonably understand whether the borrower could make any repayments. Furthermore, if 
we don’t think that the lender did enough to establish whether the repayments to credit were 
affordable, this doesn’t on its own meant that a complaint should be upheld.  
 
We would usually only go on to uphold a complaint in circumstances were we were able to 
recreate what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown – typically 
using information from the consumer – and this clearly shows that the repayments in 
question were unaffordable.   
 
I’ve kept this in mind when deciding Mrs C’s complaint. 
 
The credit account Mrs C was provided with had a credit limit of £3,000.00. And as this was 
a revolving credit facility, Creation was required to understand whether Mrs C could repay 
around £3,000.00 within a reasonable period of time. Creation says that it would have asked 
Mrs C to confirm her income and that it carried out a credit check.  
 
It says that it recorded Mrs C had an annual income of £42,000.00 and the credit checks 
showed that Mrs C had existing debts. I can’t see that Mrs C had any significant adverse 
information such as defaulted accounts or county court judgments recorded against her at 
this stage. Although it’s fair to say that Creation was aware that Mrs C had a debt-to-income 
ratio of around 50%. 
 
Bearing in mind Mrs C’s debt-to income ratio was higher than that of the average borrower, I 
don’t think that it was reasonable for Creation to assume that Mrs C would have enough to 
meet her living and other non-credit related committed expenditure. As Creation doesn’t 
appear to have taken any steps to find out about Mrs C’s actual living and other non-credit 
related committed expenditure, in these circumstances, I don’t think that the checks it carried 
out before agreeing to provide this facility to Mrs C were proportionate.  
 
As Creation did not carry out proportionate checks, I’ve gone on to consider what such 
checks are more likely than not to have shown. Bearing in mind the circumstances here, I 
think it would be reasonable to expect Creation to have had some idea of Mrs C’s had 
income and her non-discretionary living expenses, as well as the information on her credit 
commitments which it had.  
 
Having looked at copies of the bank statements Mrs C has provided, I’m satisfied that 
Creation obtaining further information from Mrs C won’t have made a different I say this 
because it looks like when Mrs C’s regular and committed living expenses at the time are 
added to what Creation knew about her credit commitments and then deducted from her 
income, she did have sufficient funds left over in order to make sustainable repayments to 
this account. 
 
I accept that Mrs C’s full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Creation 
gathered or in the information she’s now provided. For example, I’ve seen what she has said 
about going on to enter into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (“IVA”). I’m sorry to hear 
about what Mrs C has old us. But Creation can’t be expected to know that this would 
happen. And bearing in mind what the bank statements I’ve been provided with show, which 
Creation in any event was not required to obtain at the time, I can’t reasonably say that 
further checks would have prevented Creation from providing this credit account to her.  
 
In reaching my conclusions, I’ve also considered whether the lending relationship between 
Creation and Mrs C might have been unfair to Mrs C under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (“CCA”).  
 
 
 
However, for the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t think Creation irresponsibly lent to Mrs C or 
otherwise treated her unfairly in relation to this matter. And I haven’t seen anything to 
suggest that section 140A CCA or anything else would, given the facts of this complaint, 
lead to a different outcome here.  
 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I don’t think that Creation’s 
checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs C did go far enough, I’ve not been persuaded that 
Creation doing more, in this instance, would have prevented it from lending. As this is the 
case, I’m not upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for   
Mrs C. But I hope she’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that she’ll at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mrs C’s complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2025. 
  
 
Jeshen Narayanan 
Ombudsman 
 
