DRN-3121834
The complaint
Mr M feels that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to the 
purchase of some furniture.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M purchased from a Merchant some furniture using a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement with Creation to pay for it. Mr M says he raised issues with the Merchant about 
this furniture from the start. But the merchant collapsed so he complained to Creation in July 
2020 as it financed the transaction. He told it about a number of issues he considered 
unsatisfactory with the furniture including colour, flattening and puddling.
Creation looked into the matter, but it felt that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that there wasn’t a breach of contract or material misrepresentation in the sale of the 
furniture. It also got a different company to inspect the furniture and it said that there was no 
persuasive evidence of the furniture being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. So it 
didn’t feel that it had done anything wrong and so it didn’t have any more to do. Mr M felt this 
wasn’t fair. So he complained here.
Our investigator considered the matter and didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr M doesn’t agree. 
So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation and Mr M don’t agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr M can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and other 
relevant legislation. The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr M has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also 
bring that claim against Creation provided certain conditions are met. I’ve considered these 
conditions and am satisfied that they are met in these particular circumstances.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 also implies terms into the contract with Creation that the 
furniture will be of satisfactory quality. What’s ‘satisfactory’ is, is measured by what a 
reasonable person would consider as ‘satisfactory’ considering any description of the goods, 
the price, and other relevant circumstances.  Under this legislation, the customer is entitled 
to potential redress if the furniture is not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So in 
order for me to be satisfied that Creation should do anything further, I must be satisfied that 
the problems Mr M had with the furniture were there at the point of sale or something then 
was inherently wrong with it.
Mr M points to having talked to the Merchant after the sale and says his concerns were 
agreed with by the Merchant at the time. However the Merchant has since stopped being in 
business. And this is why he took his complaint to Creation. But his complaint here is about 
Creation. And I can only uphold this complaint if I’m satisfied that Creation has treated him 
unfairly or not fulfilled its obligations under the legislation I’ve described.
I can see that Creation organised for an independent inspection of the furniture. This wasn’t 
instantaneous, however these events were during the pandemic and considering the 
circumstances I don’t think there was any unreasonable delay here or unfairness around that 
issue.
I’ve considered the independent report and I can see the inspector took numerous 
photographs and has addressed each of the issues Mr M has raised about the quality of the 
furniture. The Inspector has provided a lengthy report which demonstrates to me a diligent 
and comprehensive inspection of the furniture. I have also considered the numerous 
photographs taken of the furniture carefully as well.
Having done so I’m not going to repeat its findings at length as Mr M and the parties have 
seen this report. In short it doesn’t find persuasive evidence of the furniture being of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. It notes that there has been puddling of the leather 
which is a natural characteristic of it. The Inspector has described to Mr M methods of 
maintenance which would improve this issue.
The Inspector has noted that there is a marginal difference in shade of some of the furniture 
but has described this as natural for such furniture and its coverings. I’ve not been able to 
see any significant, noticeable difference from the photographs. And it is note that the 
inspection was done some time after the purchase, so any such colour difference could be 
due to natural changes over time.
Mr M has also complained that some of the furniture has flattened since purchase. The 
Inspector has said he’s not found evidence of issues from point of sale. He says issues 
could be due to maintenance or usage but doesn’t consider that these issues were present 
when the furniture was purchased.
Having considered the matter in the round, and the report and the photographs I’ve 
considered, I’m not persuaded on balance that this furniture was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of sale or had some form of inherent defects which Creation should remedy.
I can appreciate this isn’t the decision Mr M wishes to read. And I’m mindful of his comments 
about struggling to maintain payments for this furniture. However I’m not persuaded that 
Creation has treated him unfairly in how it has considered his claim to it under the legislation 
I’ve described. And if he is struggling financially he needs to talk to Creation about this so it 
can consider that matter.
In short, I’ve considered everything that Mr M has said, and I appreciate how Mr M feels 
about the whole situation. However, I don’t think what Creation has done with regard to the 
Section 75 has meant that Mr M has been treated unfairly. So this complaint doesn’t 
succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
