DRN-3046168
The complaint
Miss J said that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Creation provided the following loan to Miss J:
Date taken
Loan status
Number of monthly 
instalments
Loan 
amount
Approximate  
monthly  
repayment*
March 2018
Outstanding 
48
£10,000
£286.38
Miss J told us that when she applied for this loan, she also had a number of other loans in 
place and she had only recently been released from an ‘IVA’ (an individual voluntary 
arrangement – this is a formal debt solution to repay money owed to creditors). She said she 
was still struggling financially and doesn’t feel Creation checked if she could afford the loan 
or review her spending habits at the time which included gambling. She’s unhappy that 
Creation registered a default when she ran into payment problems and sold the loan to a 
third party - and that it has now sold the loan again after it was returned to the lender. 
Our investigator didn’t uphold Miss J’s complaint. 
Miss J disagreed with our investigator’s view. She mainly said that whilst she understands 
that on the surface it appeared she could afford the repayments, if Creation had checked her 
bank statements (like responsible lenders tend to) it would’ve seen the issues she had, 
especially after having completed an IVA not long before. She told us that if Creation had 
asked a question about gambling she would have answered honestly but it failed to do that 
in her opinion.
Miss J has sent us bank statements and an up to date credit report in support of her 
complaint.
Miss J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and I’ve kept this in mind when deciding Miss J’s complaint. I’d like to reassure Miss J that 
I’ve looked at the complaint afresh – and I’ve independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. I’ll explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan – in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules don’t say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrower’s credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrower’s overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:

the lower a customer’s income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)

the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)

the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks weren’t carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
would’ve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
should’ve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that can’t be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I’ve thought carefully about what this all means for Miss J’s complaint.
When Miss J applied for this loan, Creation asked her for information about her finances and 
carried out some credit checks. It has sent me a summary of the results it obtained.
Creation recorded Miss J’s salary was around £2,025 per month and I think that was broadly 
about right. I can see from the bank statements Miss J has provided that there was some 
variation in her pay from month to month but her salary in the three months running up to her 
taking out this loan was never less than £1,981. After making allowance for her normal 
monthly spending, including what it saw she owed her other existing creditors, Creation felt 
that the amount of disposable income she had available was ample to cover the monthly 
repayments on its loan. 
The credit checks Creation carried out showed that Miss J had no active county court 
judgements registered within the previous six years and no defaults on her record within the 
last four years. 
It noted that, at worst, she had been three payments in arrears over the course of the 
previous four years but she wasn’t currently in arrears or default – and that had been the 
position for at least the last twelve months.
Miss J says Creation should’ve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her. But I think it’s fair to say that all the information Creation had gathered tended to 
suggest that Miss J seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had 
ongoing money problems or a serious debt problem. It wouldn’t be unusual for someone 
applying for this type of lending to have other debt – and sometimes even an impaired credit 
history. And these wouldn’t necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I don’t think the amount 
of debt shown on Miss J’s credit checks was excessive having regard to her income or that 
anything else revealed in the credit checks Creation carried out was enough for me to say 
that a responsible lender should’ve realised it needed to find out more before lending or that 
it should have refused the loan application. 
I’d expect Creation to decide Miss J’s lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesn’t usually provide the same level of detail that a person’s own credit 
search will. And it isn’t necessarily up to date – that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when it’s been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrower’s credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. I’m also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that some information Miss J might expect 
to see reflected on a credit check may not have been identified by a credit check done by 
Creation when she applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to lend here – especially as there 
wasn’t anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss J wouldn’t be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I don’t think proportionate checks would’ve required 
Creation to probe any more deeply into Miss J’s finances or ask Miss J to prove what she 
was declaring (by requiring her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss J when she says she would have responded honestly to a 
direct question about gambling, but this wasn’t something I would necessarily expect a 
responsible lender to enquire into if there was nothing to suggest this might be a particular 
concern. I don’t think anything Creation saw in the information it had in front of it would have 
alerted a responsible lender to think that Miss J’s spending on gambling (or anything else) 
was out of control or that her use of credit showed hallmarks of someone struggling to gain 
control of her debt. And I think it’s fair to say that Miss J was fully engaged in the application 
process and there would have been an opportunity for Miss J to mention this to the lender 
had she wished to alert it to her gambling spending.
I have also kept in mind that Miss J told Creation that she intended to use this loan for ‘debt 
consolidation’ – in other words, to pay off other debt. I think in these circumstances Creation 
was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Miss J was borrowing specifically 
to help her manage her finances more responsibly – and it looked like she ought to be able 
to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I can’t fairly say in this situation that Creation is responsible for adding to Miss J’s debt 
problems if she didn’t use the loan for its stated purpose. I think she could have used the 
loan to help her improve her financial situation. 
In particular, she could’ve saved on credit card interest as it looks like she might have been 
making only minimum monthly repayments to her cards which adds very significantly to the 
long term cost of that credit – repayments at that level are insufficient to make any 
meaningful inroads into card balances. 
I’m sorry that Miss J has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has 
proved difficult for her. I accept that Miss J’s actual circumstances possibly weren’t fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Creation obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Miss J. And I haven’t seen enough to make me think that Creation acted towards Miss J in 
any other way that wasn’t fair and reasonable. Creation seems to me to have responded 
fairly and reasonably when Miss J had problems keeping up with the loan monthly 
repayments. And I can’t fairly say it wasn’t entitled to sell her debt or that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it chose to do this.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss J and I’m sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why I’ve reached these conclusions. 
I expect Creation to continue to work constructively with Miss J and to treat her positively 
and sympathetically as long as she is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would 
encourage Miss J to provide full details of her financial situation to the new debt owner if she 
still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if Miss J would like help to 
manage her finances there’s more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
support on our website – or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold Miss J’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman
