DRN-1605970
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the fact that a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
(Creation) is still showing on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had a loan from Creation which he paid off around March 2018. This loan defaulted 
around May 2012. In September 2019, Mr H contacted a credit reference agency (CRA) to 
complain that some of the information about his loan was wrong on his credit report – he 
said it was showing the wrong settlement date. And he complained to Creation around the 
same time saying that the loan should have been removed from his credit file entirely. The 
CRA wrote to Mr H saying they could only amend information on his credit report with 
Creation’s permission. They said they had contacted Creation and Creation said the loan 
was reporting correctly on the credit file so there was nothing they could do.
Creation didn’t reply within the 8 week time limit so Mr H came to our service. When our 
investigator picked up the case, Creation said they could see the default was placed on the 
account more than 6 years ago and that the account had been settled. Creation’s case 
handler said “I have sent an email off to CRA to have the account deleted as it is now settled 
and default applied more than 6 years ago”. 
Mr H said that he would also like some compensation for the error. He said that it had 
caused him a significant amount of stress. He‘d been trying to arrange finance for his new 
kitchen and had been anxious that the reported information about his Creation loan would 
make it difficult to get finance. On top of this he’d put in a lot of time and effort to try to 
resolve the issue which he also felt he should be compensated for. 
Creation offered Mr H £200 compensation but Mr H wasn’t happy with this. He thought a 
figure of around £500 would be more appropriate, particularly given how long the issue had 
run for. 
Our investigator was satisfied with Creation’s offer and his view was that they didn’t need to 
do anything more. But Mr H wasn’t happy with this outcome. He said he didn’t feel it 
reflected how long he had been affected for. He felt that Creation had deliberately left the 
loan on his credit file. And he was unhappy that the loan was still showing on his credit file 
even after Creation had said they had asked for it to be removed.     
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to uphold Mr H's complaint - I'll explain why.
Creation haven’t disputed that they made an error in not removing the loan from Mr H’s 
credit file – instead the point in dispute is how much compensation should be paid to Mr H. 
I’ve considered this below.
Putting things right
I asked Mr H to check his credit report again and he sent me a copy of his credit report dated 
9 April 2020. I can see his Creation loan is still showing on this credit report even though 
Creation said they had asked the loan to be deleted in December 2019. I can’t see why this 
hasn’t happened but I do think Creation need to work with the credit reference agencies to 
put it right. I’m directing Creation to ensure the loan is removed from Mr H’s credit file so that 
it no longer appears on his credit report.
I can also see from Mr H’s credit report that the Creation loan stands out as a poorly 
managed account – out of numerous accounts reported there are very few red markers. So I 
can understand why it’s so important to Mr H to have this removed from his credit report. 
And I can understand the stress it’s caused him when applying for new finance. I’m aware 
this has gone on for nearly two years. But Mr H hasn’t lost out as a result of the error on his 
credit file – he has been able to get the finance he needed. So, given all the circumstances, 
I’m satisfied the £200 Creation have offered Mr H is fair and reasonable to compensate him 
for the stress he felt.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
need to pay the £200 they’ve offered to Mr H. And they need to work with all the credit 
reference agencies to ensure the loan is removed from their credit reports.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman
