 
 
DRN-4647426 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C complains that a car acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) wasn’t of satisfactory quality.  
Mr C is represented in this complaint, for ease of reference I have referred to Mr C 
throughout this decision.  
What happened 
In October 2021, Mr C was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. The car was about six years old and had covered approximately 60,000 miles 
when the agreement started. The agreement was for 60 months, and the cash price was 
£24,500.  
Mr C has said shortly after acquiring the car he noticed an engine light came on, the vehicle 
went in for repair and the issue was resolved. Amongst other things the brake pads also 
needed replacing making him question the reliability of the independent inspection which 
was carried out prior to him acquiring the car.  
Some time later, in June 2023 Mr C said whilst driving the car, the car lost all power and 
emitted large amounts of smoke. He had the car independently inspected and was informed 
the car needed a new turbo and a new engine, repairs costing in the region of £14,000. Mr C 
said this was unexpected as he hadn’t done much mileage since taking possession of the 
car and so doesn’t think the car was of satisfactory quality.  
Mr C complained to Creation, but it took longer than eight weeks to investigate the 
complaint, so in the meantime Mr C referred his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator 
looked into things but didn’t uphold the complaint. She accepted there was faults with the car 
but said the problems appeared to be down to reasonable wear and tear of a second-hand 
vehicle. She didn’t think it would be fair to ask Creation to do anything more to resolve  
Mr C’s complaint.   
 
Mr C remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the Investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it affected what I think is the right outcome.  
The hire purchase agreement entered by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and this Service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is also the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement and responsible for a complaint about its quality. 
 
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr C entered. 
Because Creation supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, there’s an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they 
are of a standard that a reasonable person would find acceptable, taking into account factors 
such as the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.  
The CRA also says the quality of goods includes the general state and condition, and other 
things such as its fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects 
and safety can be aspects of the quality of the goods.  
Satisfactory quality also covers durability. For cars, this means the components must last a 
reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will depend on various factors. In Mr C’s 
case the car was used and covered approximately 63,000 miles and was about six years old 
when he acquired it. So, I’d have different expectations of it compared to a brand-new car.  
The car had travelled a reasonable distance and it is fair to expect there to be some wear to 
it because of this use. As with any car, there is an expectation there will be ongoing 
maintenance and upkeep costs. And with second-hand cars, it is more likely parts will need 
to be replaced sooner or be worn faster than with a brand-new car. Creation would not be 
responsible for anything that was due to normal wear and tear whilst in Mr C’s possession.  
I’ve considered Mr C’s testimony, and from the evidence provided by both sides, I can see it 
is not in dispute there are issues with the car.  Mr C has provided a quotation which details 
the following components are in need of repair:  
- 
Transmission 
- 
Coolant 
- 
Gaskets 
- 
Turbocharger 
- 
Ancillary drive belt  
 
I’m satisfied there are faults present on the car in question and repairs are estimated to cost 
approximately £14,000. Unfortunately, due to the length of time passed the garage did not 
keep any other records as to what was discussed or diagnosed at this point so there’s 
nothing further for me to consider.  
But just because there were faults found with the car, does not automatically mean the car 
was not of satisfactory quality. The car had been in Mr C’s possession for about a year and a 
half and from the MOT history I’ve seen it had travelled in excess of a further 5,000 miles 
after it was supplied. I do think if the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply 
Mr C would not have been able to use the car for as long as he did.  
Mr C has told us an engine warning light appeared on the dashboard in October 2021 and 
having been to the garage it reappeared again. In February 2022 the car underwent repairs 
whereby the brake pads, glow plug, EGR filter and hose were covered under warranty. Mr C 
also paid for an air filter which was not covered under the warranty.  
Between this point and June 2023 Mr C continued to use the car. I’ve seen nothing that 
indicates the faults reported with the car now were present at the point of supply. I don’t think 
its plausible that the vehicle could have covered more than 5000 miles since supply in such 
a condition nor is there any information to show work carried out in 2022 failed or contributed 
to the current symptoms.  
And so, I’m not persuaded the faults which were present in February 2022 were connected 
to the faults which later occurred in June 2023. I think the components required to be 
 
 
replaced now are by their nature wear and tear items and I’m not persuaded this means the 
vehicle wasn’t durable or wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied.  
As such, and while I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I won’t be asking 
Creation to cover the cost of the repairs.  
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2024. 
  
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser 
Ombudsman 
 
