 
 
DRN-3963813 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs W has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
On 10 June 2014, Mrs W signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “Z” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
Mrs W complained to Creation, she said that she was told by Z that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t 
happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs W also believed that what happened at 
the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation.  
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs W on 12 October 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 29 October 2021. Creation considered Mrs W had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service on 20 March 2022 as she was unhappy with 
Creation’s response and Mrs W asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs W’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs W 
and Creation.  
 
On 12 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs W keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs W had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mrs W accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation have now had over a year to respond to the investigator’s findings had it wished 
to. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs W’s complaint, both in respect of the 
refusal by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair 
relationship under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs W’s s.75 
claim on 29 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs W brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 20 
March 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs W. Here the relationship 
ended only when Mrs W sold her home and repaid the loan with a lump sum on 7 
February 2018. The complaint was raised on 12 October 2021. So, the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs W has said that she was told by Z’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make.  
I haven’t seen any evidence Mrs W had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels 
before being approached by a representative of Z.  
 
 
 
I’ve looked at the documents from the time of the lending provided by Mrs W to see if 
there was anything contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system 
wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs W on 10 June 2014, sets out Mrs W’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. I’m satisfied the loan 
agreement clearly sets out, amongst other things, the amount being borrowed, the interest 
to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs W’s name to solely purchase the 
system sold by Z. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs W to compare her total costs against the 
financial benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given this, Mrs 
W would have looked to Z’s representative to help her understand how much the panels 
would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the system in 
order for her to make a decision. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but neither Creation 
nor Mrs W have provided any. Mrs W said she’s supplied everything she had.  
 
However, Mrs W has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at Z’s website 
from around the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 11 
October 2013. I am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mrs W. On the main page it 
states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar 
PV systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge 
and give you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get 
paid for generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and 
how they would pay for the products being offered by Z, it’s likely this would have been a 
central part of Z’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports 
Mrs W’s testimony that Z’s representative told her the monthly payments and savings she 
would receive would cover her monthly finance payments.  
 
So, I find what Mrs W’s said believable. I think Z’s website supports Mrs W’s testimony 
that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key 
 
 
reason to purchase the system and her savings on her electrical bills and income from the 
FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mrs W would have looked to Z’s representative to help her understand how much 
the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the 
system. And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mrs W dealt with 
would’ve used similar lines to those Z produced in its promotional literature on its website 
at the time of the sale. So, this evidence supports Mrs W’s testimony that she was told by 
Z’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(‘RECC’) against Z. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the renewable energy 
consumer Code and makes sure that its members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated Z’s conduct and informed Z of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about Z using false or misleading information and that pressured 
sales were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing 
the contract. 
 
So, the Panel decided Z was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required 
members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 
(which concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an 
informed decision). Given RECC’s concern about Z’s culture and conduct, it made the 
decision to terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mrs W has 
complained about, at a similar time she was sold her system. 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision:  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the 
breaches upheld… [Z’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Following the RECC report Creation terminated its relationship with Z. This is also set out 
in Z’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 available on companies house. The report 
states that mis-selling issues by Z were brought up by Creation, which led to it terminating 
the contract with Z and also withholding funds as it expected claims from consumers 
under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it had serious concerns about the 
way Z was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mrs W’s testimony. 
 
 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs W said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs W left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £120 payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on, I find Mrs W’s account of what she was told by Z to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from Z.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs W’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,448 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs W’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs W’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by Z were not true. I think the salesman from Z must reasonably 
have been aware that Mrs W’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs W’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs W. 
 
Considering Mrs W’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, Z’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the 
fact it hasn’t disputed these facts, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation 
to the contrary, I think it likely Z gave Mrs W a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs W’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs W was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs W went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs W’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mrs W in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs W and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mrs W’s s.75 complaint and her other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, 
this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs W and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs W a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of Z’s assurances. That is, that Mrs W’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs W received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs W received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings.  
 
Mrs W may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But 
Creation can and should use assumptions when information is not available. And as Mrs 
W repaid the loan on 7 February 2018 around the time she sold the house, Mrs W thinks 
there is limited information available from that time.   
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs W made towards the loan up until she repaid 
it – A 
• 
Use Mrs W’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs W should have repaid each month towards the 
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she 
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual 
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of 
settlement – C 
• 
Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off 
and the end of the original loan term – D 
• 
Deduct D from the amount Mrs W paid off the loan – E 
• 
Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mrs W paid off the loan until 
the date of settlement – F 
• 
Creation should pay Mrs W C + F 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs W 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
 
 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mrs T’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
