DRN-2762814
The complaint
Mr E complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered around 35,700 
miles.
Within the first two weeks of getting the car Mr E experienced a problem with the air 
conditioning. Mr E contacted the supplying dealer to raise his concerns. He says he was 
advised to take the car for a diagnostic at any garage so long as it was VAT registered.
Mr E took the car for a diagnostic at a main dealer. It found faults with the radiator and air 
conditioning system and told Mr E that repairs were required which would cost around 
£1126.00.
Mr E contacted the supplying dealer and advised them of the faults and the cost of repairs. 
He asked the dealer to repair the car or he would reject it due to the faults.
The supplying dealer refused to repair the car because of the cost. So, Mr E complained to 
Creation. 
In response, Creation said it didn’t think the fault was present at the point of supply because 
Mr E had driven the car for 3 weeks between getting the car ad having the diagnostic report 
carried out. It declined his request to reject the car.
Mr E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think the car was of satisfactory quality and 
said that because Mr E had already given the supplying dealer the chance to repair the car, 
he should now be allowed to reject it. 
Mr E didn’t agree with the level of compensation the investigator recommended. He said 
he’d spent a lot of time taking the car to various garages and on the phone trying to resolve 
things with Creation. He also said he’d been contacted by debt collectors including at 
evenings and weekends which had negatively impacted on his wellbeing. Mr E said that 
because he hadn’t been able to use the car, it had been occupying a private parking space 
at his property, and he’d had to incur the costs of taxis to get around.
Creation didn’t agree either. It said it thought it should be allowed to inspect the car before 
agreeing to a rejection. It said that Mr E hadn’t given the supplying dealer the opportunity to 
repair the car and that the supplying dealer had agreed to allow Mr E to reject the car in 
August 2020, but Mr E had requested the return of his deposit before he was prepared to 
return the car.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Creation supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement there’s an implied tern 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there’s a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car isn’t of satisfactory quality.
I’ve looked at the diagnostic report dated 9 July 2020. This says the air conditioning is 
inoperative due to the damage to the front of the condenser. It also says the radiator has 
been damaged and needs replacement to ensure that there won’t be any coolant leaks.
Having considered the report, I’m satisfied that there’s a fault with the car. Although the 
report doesn’t say that the fault was present at the point of supply, the presumption applies 
here, and I haven’t seen any evidence from Creation to rebut it. 
I’ve taken into account Creation’s belief that the fault couldn’t have been present at the point 
of supply because the car had covered around 200 miles in the 3 weeks since Mr E acquired 
it. Creation has said it doesn’t think a car could cover this mileage with a coolant leak. 
However, I disagree. The report doesn’t say that there is a coolant leak. It recommends 
replacement of the radiator to prevent a coolant leak.  
Taking the nature of the fault into account and the very short time between the point of 
supply and the diagnostic report, I’m satisfied that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. 
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
Creation has said that Mr E didn’t allow the supplying dealer this opportunity, but I disagree. 
Mr E obtained an estimate for repairs, but the supplying dealer refused to repair the car or 
arrange repairs. Because of this, I don’t think it’s fair to expect Mr E to give the supplying 
dealer another chance to repair the car. Mr E should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
I can see that the issues which Mr E has experienced have impacted on him. He’s had to 
take the car to the garage on more than one occasions, and he’s spent time trying to resolve 
his complaint with Creation. He’s explained that he hasn’t been able to use the car since July 
2020 because of the supplying dealer’s refusal to arrange repairs or allow him to reject the 
car. This has meant that he’s incurred additional travel expenses. I think its fair to ask 
creation to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E.
I’m aware that Mr E stopped paying his monthly payments because he didn’t want to pay for 
a faulty car. This has led to him receiving arrears letters and being contacted by a debt 
collection agent. I understand how frustrating and upsetting this has been for Mr E. However, 
although Mr E complained to Creation about the fault with the car, he was still under an 
obligation to meet the terms of the agreement. Because of this, I’m unable to say that 
Creation shouldn’t have pursued the missed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr E
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund all of the monthly payments made by Mr E plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr E’s credit file
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
