DRN-3493790
The complaint
Miss B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) as she believes they 
didn’t credit a payment she made to her credit agreement in a reasonable time.
What happened
Miss B purchased an item from a third-party and at the time, she took out an interest-free 
credit agreement with Creation. The credit agreement was for 20 months, with monthly 
instalments of around £35 to be paid. The total amount payable was £707.
Miss B says she made an additional payment of £100 on 12 November 2021 through a 
portal with Creation. Miss B says she couldn’t see her payment had credited her account 
and was unhappy with the length of time it was taking.
On 18 November 2021, Miss B contacted Creation and says she was on hold for over an 
hour. During that conversation Miss B says she was told that the payment would credit her 
account immediately, however this didn’t happen. She says she chased Creation for a 
response and after a number of attempts, she lodged a complaint with them. Creation say 
they received Miss B’s complaint on 22 November 2021.
The payment credited Miss B’s account on 23 November 2021.
Creation responded to Miss B on 7 December 2021, explaining that the payment she had 
made was located on a third-party payment processing system. As a result, they say the 
payment had to be applied manually to Miss B’s account and couldn’t happen straight away. 
So, they apologised for the misinformation Miss B may have been given over the phone. 
They also explained that normally, Miss B’s payment should have registered on her account 
by the end of the next day, but due to a system issue it hadn’t. So, Creation applied £25 
credit to Miss B’s account as they acknowledged they had made a mistake and for the 
inconvenience caused to Miss B in having to contact them about the issue.
Miss B, unhappy with Creation’s response, referred her complaint to our service. Miss B is 
also unhappy as she feels Creation have not adhered to deadlines they should have when 
responding to her complaint with them.
Our investigator found that Creation had already put things right for Miss B by way of an 
apology, crediting the missed payment to her account and by providing an extra payment to 
recognise the inconvenience caused. So, she didn’t feel Creation needed to do anything 
further.
Miss B disagreed as she didn’t feel the £25 credited was enough to cover the inconvenience 
caused. And so, the complaint was passed to me to decide on.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint and I’ll explain why below.
Creation has explained that the payment Miss B had made to her account was located on a 
third-party payment processing system that they use. They say they had system issues and 
that, while normally, the payment should have credited Miss B’s account by the end of 
following day it was made, in this instance, it had to be applied to the account manually. This 
is something they say couldn’t be completed immediately and can take 3-5 working days.
Creation acknowledged they had made a mistake and that the payment should have 
credited Miss B’s account sooner than it did. They also acknowledge they may have given 
incorrect information to Miss B in a conversation. As it isn’t in dispute that Creation fell short 
of what they say they normally would provide, I’ve gone onto consider whether Creation’s 
offer to Miss B was fair and reasonable.
I would like to reassure Miss B that I have carefully thought about what she has said. I 
appreciate Miss B feels she spent some time contacting Creation to get this matter resolved 
and I accept this might have been a frustrating experience for her. Creation’s mistake was a 
one-off incident, and its impact lasted a relatively short amount of time. 
Creation rectified the issue for Miss B within a week of her bringing it to their attention, and 
that they also acknowledged they had made a mistake and put things right for her. 
Considering the credit agreement taken out was interest free and there wasn’t any knock-on 
impact of interest or charges that accrued, I’m satisfied the £25 credit Creation placed on 
Miss B’s account is a fair way to resolve this matter. So, I think Creation’s apology and £25 
credit is enough in this instance.
Miss B is also unhappy as she feels Creation have not adhered to deadlines they should 
have when responding to her complaint with them. As complaint handling isn’t a regulated 
activity that falls within the remit of this service, I’m not able to consider this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman
