DRN-4026860
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the outcome of her section 75 claim with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (“Creation”)
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs P was supplied with a laptop, financed under a Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) agreement provided by Creation. 
Around five months later Mrs P returned the laptop to the supplier because it wouldn’t turn 
on. Although it seems repairs were carried out, Mrs P then raised a section 75 claim with 
Creation in August 2022. She said that she believed that the laptop she’d been supplied had 
been modified and had been supplied second-hand.
Creation responded in December 2022. It said it had liaised with the supplier which told it 
that the laptop provided to Mrs P was new and unboxed in store at the point it was set up 
and supplied to her.
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service in December 2022. In summary, she said that 
when the laptop had been supplied to her, she had been told it had been customised. She 
said whilst it wasn’t explained exactly what that meant, she believed that the laptop’s 
subsequent failure was due to it having been fitted with an incompatible operating system. 
She alleged that she had been supplied with a second-hand laptop.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. They said that the laptop worked for a number 
of months before becoming inoperable, but its failure doesn’t suggest that it was second-
hand when supplied. They also said that under relevant legislation Creation should be given 
the opportunity to repair the goods, should they have not been of satisfactory quality, and 
based on what they’d seen, that repair had been carried out. 
Mrs P disagreed. She maintained that she’d been supplied with a second-hand laptop and 
said that we’d been provided with a call recording with the supplier in which it accepted that 
was the case. 
Our investigator disagreed that had been said and Mrs P asked for the case to be passed to 
an ombudsman. She also provided examples of similar problems she said other customers 
had faced with the same supplier.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P made a number of detailed submissions to this service regarding her complaint. She 
might find that I’ve presented events in far less detail than in her submissions. That’s simply 
because I don’t find it necessary to mirror that level of detail in explaining what I think a fair 
and reasonable outcome is. So, if I don’t mention something that Mrs P did, it’s not because 
I’ve not considered it – I can assure Mrs P that I’ve carefully considered all of her 
submissions in detail.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I’m required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that 
means that if Mrs P has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, then she also has a ‘like claim’ against the finance provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality – defined as whether they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers 
to the durability of the goods.
Mrs P has provided what she considers to be evidence of other consumers experiencing a 
similar fault with the same supplier. Whilst I’ve taken what she’s provided into account, it 
doesn’t persuade me that Mrs P has necessarily experienced the same problem as others. 
So, I’ll base my decision on the evidence available to me in relation to the events which led 
to Mrs P’s complaint.
It seems all parties agree that Mrs P entered into a contract with the supplier to be provided 
with a new laptop. I also understand that Mrs P was provided with a service whereby the 
supplier would set up the laptop, which involved removing it from its packaging whilst she 
was present.
Mrs P has made several points about the events which occurred when the laptop was set up 
for her – she asserts that her view was obstructed when it was removed from the packaging 
and that she was told that it had been customised but wasn’t told how.
I’m aware from what’s been provided that the supplier refutes Mrs P assertion that the laptop 
was not new – it says that the laptop was brand new and that the particular store Mrs P used 
does not sell anything other than new items of that type. It also seems that it doesn’t accept 
that it told Mrs P that the laptop had been customised and explained that sometimes it 
carries out the set-up process in anticipation of a sale.
I wasn’t present when Mrs P was supplied with the laptop, so I can’t say what was said for 
sure. However, I don’t think that Mrs P’s version of events is as persuasive as the supplier’s, 
and significantly, even if I were to accept what she’s said, I don’t think her assertions would 
necessarily lead me to believe that she’d been supplied with a second-hand laptop instead 
of a new one. I’ve also listened to the call Mrs P referred to, and I’m satisfied the supplier did 
not accept it had supplied a second-hand laptop. Overall, I’m not persuaded that there’s 
been a misrepresentation here.
It seems to me that Mrs P’s belief that she was supplied with a second-hand laptop in the 
most part stems from its failure, particularly because she’s under the impression that failure 
was due to it having an incompatible operating system. From what Mrs P has said, I 
understand she was told this by the supplier’s telephone IT support team. She also said that 
the laptop’s manufacturer said that if it’s the case, someone must have affected this prior to 
it being supplied to Mrs P, otherwise the laptop would have its original operating system.  
From what’s been said it seems that all parties accept that something went wrong with Mrs 
P’s laptop. I haven’t, however, been supplied with sufficient evidence to safely conclude 
exactly what went wrong with it. It also seems that the information Mrs P relied on in 
asserting the cause of the failure from the supplier’s IT team as well as the manufacturer, 
was provided to her without having inspected the device itself. 
Taking into account everything that’s been said, and the evidence provided, I have reason to 
doubt that the laptop was supplied with an incompatible operating system. I say this because 
it seems that the laptop worked correctly for a number of months before it became 
inoperable. I doubt that would’ve been possible if Mrs P’s assertion is correct. So, I’m not 
persuaded that’s what happened. Even if it had been the case though, I’m not persuaded 
that would necessarily indicate that the laptop supplied was a second-hand item.
Nonetheless, Creation is answerable for a complaint about the laptop’s quality, and I don’t 
think that a reasonable person would expect such an item to have gone wrong within five 
months. 
Under relevant legislation, Creation might have been required to repair the laptop if it could 
be established that its failure was as a result of it being of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, or not having been sufficiently durable. I’m not persuaded that was the case 
because I’ve not been presented with sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude exactly 
why it went wrong.
However, I’m aware that the supplier has said the laptop was repaired and is available for 
Mrs P to collect. So, even if I were to have accepted that, for example, the supplier had 
caused an incompatible operating to be installed on the laptop during its set-up process, or if 
I found the laptop hadn’t been sufficiently durable, I might have required Creation to carry 
out repairs. From everything that’s been said though, it seems the necessary repairs have 
already been carried out. I haven’t been presented with sufficient evidence to show that 
those repairs weren’t successful, so it seems that things have already been put right to the 
same extent that I would’ve required Creation to affect.
Overall, and for all of the reasons explained above, I’m not persuaded that there’s been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation here. So, I don’t require Creation to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman
