DRN-2784207
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd unfairly refused his claim brought 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974. He wants the refund of the cost of a 
sofa that he says wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he ordered a new sofa from a supplier I’ll call “HV”. He says this was paid 
for through a fixed sum loan agreement financed by Creation. Mr B states that when the sofa 
was delivered, he wasn’t happy with the quality of the item. So he rang Creation and told it 
that he was withdrawing from the finance agreement and wanted to reject the sofa. Mr B 
states that Creation turned down his complaint. And has recorded that the agreement is in 
arrears on his credit file. Mr B says he‘s now had a report prepared by a business I’ll refer to 
as “BFI”. And that this report says the sofa isn’t of satisfactory quality.
Creation told us that it had processed Mr B’s request to withdraw from the agreement. But 
had explained to him that this was separate to him rejecting the goods. And that was 
something that he needed to take up with HV. It said that HV had obtained an inspection 
report from a business I’ll refer to as “S”, which said that there was nothing wrong with the 
sofa. Creation said that the terms of the agreement meant that if he withdrew from it, Mr B 
had to repay any sum owed within 30 days. As it had paid HV for the goods it required Mr B 
to repay the full sum of £1,790. And as Mr B hadn’t done so, it had reported the arrears to 
credit reference agencies (CRA’s).
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 30 March 2021. I said that I didn’t 
intend to uphold the complaint. I found that Mr B had exercised his right to withdraw from the 
finance agreement within the statutory 14 day “cooling off” period. As such Creation wasn’t 
liable for the quality of the goods as there was no ongoing regulated finance agreement 
through which this liability could’ve arisen.
But because the money had already been paid by Creation to HV – and in accordance with 
the terms of the agreement – Mr B was required to refund this sum to Creation. I confirmed 
that the decision didn’t prevent Mr B from making a complaint or claim directly against HV.
Since then both parties have replied. Creation said that it accepted my provisional decision.  
Mr B spoke with our investigator and said he couldn’t understand why he had to repay 
Creation.
I thank both parties for their replies. As no new material information has been supplied, I 
don’t see any reason to alter my provisional view. This is largely repeated in my final 
decision which is set out below. But I’ll explain in detail why Mr B needs to repay Creation.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic facts behind this complaint are relatively straightforward. But that tells only part of 
the story. I understand that Mr B is upset that the sofa he ordered hasn’t met his 
expectations. And I empathise with his disappointment at the problems he’s faced in trying to 
reject it.
But this complaint is made against Creation. So I’m only looking at anything that Creation 
has done or for which it might be liable.
In some limited circumstances, where credit has been provided through a regulated finance 
agreement, Section 75 gives a consumer a “like claim” against the provider of finance as 
they would have against the supplier of the goods about which complaint is brought. It 
requires there to have been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
And that’s where things start to get quite complex. Because there’s two different types of 
agreement to consider here. There’s the agreement with HV to supply the sofa. And there’s 
the regulated finance agreement with Creation to pay for it. And withdrawing from the 
finance agreement isn’t the same as cancelling the order for the sofa. Or rejecting it.
The regulated finance agreement contained a provision that allowed Mr B to withdraw from it 
– provided he did so within 14 days of it being taken out. This is known as the “cooling off” 
period. And it doesn’t require any reason to be given. Only that Mr B should notify his 
intention to withdraw from it within the required period. And it’s not in dispute that Mr B 
exercised his right to withdraw within this time frame. Nor is it disputed that Creation 
accepted this request and carried it out correctly.
But as the goods had been supplied, Creation had already paid HV for them. And under the 
terms of the agreement, Mr B had undertaken to repay Creation that sum within 30 days, if 
he withdrew from the agreement.
It also meant that the matter of whether the sofa was of satisfactory quality was no longer a 
matter for Creation to consider. The effect of Mr B withdrawing from the agreement with 
Creation meant that section 75 wouldn’t apply. There’s no longer an ongoing regulated credit 
agreement in relation to the goods.
Any rights that Mr B may have if the goods are shown not to be of satisfactory quality still 
remain. But as Mr B no longer has a “like claim” against Creation, if he wishes to seek 
redress it will have to be against HV.
Creation didn’t turn down Mr B’s complaint on the basis that the regulated agreement no 
longer existed. Rather it said that it didn’t find there’d been any breach of contract by HV for 
which it (Creation) would be liable. 
As I’m only looking at any liability that Creation may have which arises from a regulated 
finance agreement – and as Mr B withdrew from that agreement - it’s no longer necessary 
for me to go on to make any findings relating to the quality of the goods supplied.
Mr B has also raised a complaint that Creation has reported that the account is in arrears to 
the CRA’s. And that this has affected his credit file.
When he entered the regulated finance agreement, Mr B undertook that if he withdrew from 
the agreement, he would repay the full amount of credit to Creation within 30 days. So whilst 
Mr B has been repaying what would’ve been the monthly contractual payments - if he hadn’t 
withdrawn from the agreement - these no longer apply. The full amount of credit provided 
became payable when he withdrew.
I can’t say that Creation is wrong in reporting the account to be in arrears as the full amount 
hasn’t been repaid.  But those reports should reflect that the sums being paid are reducing 
the outstanding balance.
In summary, my finding is that as Mr B withdrew from the regulated finance agreement 
there’s no basis on which Creation has any liability under section 75. So, whilst I’ve reached 
my view for different reasons, I don’t think it was unfair of Creation to decline to offer a 
refund of the price of the goods supplied. And it’s entitled to report arrears on the account to 
the CRA’s as that reflects an accurate statement of the account situation. Accordingly, I’m 
not upholding this complaint.
Finally, I would again emphasise that my decision does not prevent Mr B from pursuing any 
claim he may have against HV. And whilst it’s not my role to offer advice, he may wish to 
contact that business in order to seek a resolution regarding the issues of quality of the 
goods about which he’s concerned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman
