 
 
DRN-4962069 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs J has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In July 2013, Mrs J bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “R”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
In October 2022, Mrs J complained to Creation through a claims management company 
(“CMC”). She said that she was told by R that the reductions in energy bills and the funds 
generated through the feed in tariff (“FIT”) would be sufficient to fund the cost of the credit 
agreement, therefore not placing her in a position where she would be financially worse off 
per month. However, that hasn’t happened and as a result Mrs J has suffered a financial 
loss. The CMC also believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between Mrs J and Creation.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it said that Mrs J had made her 
complaint more than six years after the event complained of and more than three years after 
she knew or ought to have known there was a problem. So, her complaint was made too 
late.   
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs J referred her complaint to our service. Creation 
then told us that as well as the reasons given in its final response, Mrs J’s s.75 claim was 
made too late under the relevant legislation.  
 
Our Investigator considered Mrs J’s complaint. They ultimately thought that:  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs J and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Mrs J keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mrs J had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding.  
 
Creation didn’t respond. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was planning to 
uphold the complaint.  
 
 
 
Neither Mrs J nor her representative nor Creation responded by the deadline I gave. So, my 
final decision is in line with my provisional one.   
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint.  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs J’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. Creation is aware of our approach to complaints like this, which has been explained 
in more detail in a number of other provisional and final decisions, so I do not think it is 
necessary to set out that level of detail here.  
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs J’s s.75 claim 
on 17 January 2022. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mrs J brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 8 February 2022. So, 
her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs J. And given the relationship was 
ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service, that particular complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
My findings on the merits of the complaint  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by R can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming R to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by R for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs J.  
 
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened 
 
Mrs J has said that she was told by R’s representative that the reductions in energy bills and 
the funds generated through the FIT would be sufficient to fund the cost of the credit 
agreement, therefore not placing Mrs J in a position where they would be financially worse 
off per month.  
 
Mrs J has said R knocked on her door to offer the system to her, and she had no prior 
interest in purchasing solar panels.  
 
The only document provided to me from the time of sale is the credit agreement. This shows 
how much Mrs J agreed to pay for the system but understandably does not include any 
information about the benefits the system would provide. Mrs J has not retained any 
additional sales documents.  
 
From the evidence available, it appears that Mrs J relied on what she was told about the 
benefits of the system. And her recollection is that she was told the system would pay for 
itself and leave her with extra money as profit.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs J’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mrs J left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £118, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on I find Mrs J’s account of what she was told by R is credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and she found the purchase 
appealing because of the assurances she says R gave her.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,417 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs J’s 
system was not performing as expected, but she has told us her system has not produced 
this level of benefit. So, these statements were not true.  
 
I think R’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs J’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to 
be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think R’s representative would have 
known that Mrs J’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of 
the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mrs J. 
 
Considering Mrs J’s account about what she was told, the documentation available from the 
time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t disputed her recollection, I think it likely R gave 
Mrs J a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider R’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs J was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that R’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs J went into the transaction. Either way, I think R’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs J’s 
point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for R’s negotiations with Mrs J in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs J and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month Mrs J has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would not otherwise have taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and other complaint points 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mrs J’s s.75 complaint and other complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from 
reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs J and Creation’s relationship arising out of R’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs J a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of R’s assurances. That is, that Mrs J’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs J received from the system over the ten-year 
term of the loan, so Mrs J pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Mrs J received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings.  
 
Mrs J will need to provide Creation with up-to-date details of her electricity generation meter 
reading and, where available, all relevant FIT statements and electricity bills. But Creation 
can use reasonable assumptions for periods where evidence of the actual benefits is not 
available. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to consider the fairness of its relationship with Mrs J 
when responding to her caused her some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this 
Creation should also pay Mrs J additional compensation as set out below. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs J’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total payments (including any advance payment/deposit and admin 
fees) Mrs J has made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement 
– A 
 
 
 
• 
Use Mrs J’s meter readings and (where available) her bills and FIT statements, to 
work out the benefits she received up until the end of the original loan term* – B 
 
• 
Calculate the difference between what Mrs J actually paid (A), and what she should 
have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment from the 
date of overpayment until the date of settlement of the complaint** – C 
 
• 
Pay C to Mrs J 
 
• 
Pay Mrs J £100 additional compensation 
 
*Where Mrs J has not been able to provide all of her electricity bills and/or FIT benefits, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculation using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Mrs J how much it’s deducted. It should 
also give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
