DRN-3281985
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a damaged fridge freezer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required chain is in place and that leaves me to consider whether there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
I have reviewed the photos and the videos of the fridge and I can see that it has a series of 
dents on the side panel. Like our investigator I am satisfied that these are dents and not 
some trick of the light as Creation and the supplier seem to have suggested. This is 
reinforced by the fact that Mr W and his partner notified the merchant immediately they 
unwrapped the fridge that it was damaged and they asked for a refund at that time. 
Consumer law entitled Mr W be allowed the reject the fridge and it is not clear why this didn’t 
happen.
I believe the matter is fairly straightforward. The goods Mr W ordered were damaged and he 
was entitled to reject them. This was not offered by either the merchant or by Creation.  I 
have noted Mr W was offered a 10% reduction as a goodwill gesture, but I do not consider 
that to be adequate. It seems that Mr W’s secondary complaint about the noise coming from 
the fridge took precedence and the manufacturer, the merchant and Creation addressed this 
without properly dealing with the fact the fridge was noticeably dented
Our investigator put a proposed solution to Mr W and Creation, but it has not responded and 
so I am issuing this formal decision in order that the matter be brought to a close and 
matters not further delayed. I believe Mr W has accepted this proposal and so I am happy 
agree.
Putting things right
Mr W should be allowed to reject the fridge freezer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

arrange for the fridge freezer to be collected from Mr W and replaced with a new 
fridge freezer (if the product in question is no longer available, then a suitable 
alternative should be agreed with Mr W),

remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr W’s credit file

calculate what Mr W has paid to date in total and deduct that amount from the capital 
amount. If this means that Mr W has paid Creation more than he borrowed, Creation 
should refund this amount to him, along with 8% simple annual interest a year from 
the date of the payments to the date of the refund*.

If this means that Mr W still owes Creation any money, then he should repay this. 
Interest can start being accrued once the fridge freezer is replaced.
*HMRC requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
