 
 
DRN-3935926 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr E has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr E has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr E throughout.  
What happened 
In November 2013 Mr E entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£8,685 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £13,681.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £114.01. There was a £135 arrangement fee and interest of 
£4,861.20.  
In January 2022 Mr E sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said P told him he’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said P told him his energy bills would go down; he’d receive 
a guaranteed income for 20 years; he’d earn up to 10% annually tax free; his property value 
would increase; and the system was maintenance free with a 25-year life expectancy.  
Mr E said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in May 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr E decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in June 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mr E the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought P 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr E. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman so the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr E.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr E says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr E says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr E to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
I’ve been supplied a copy of a purchase order I can see Mr E signed around the time he 
signed the fixed sum loan. The purchase order sets out the total cost of the system but 
doesn’t include any estimates of the savings Mr E would make. And it doesn’t set out the 
interest that’s charged under the credit agreement. Based on the documents provided, I’ve 
 
 
not seen there was an easy way for Mr E to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
Mr E said he was aware the FIT payments had reduced and wasn’t sure it would make 
financial sense to instal the system. But he says P assured him, that even with the reduction 
in FIT, the system would still be self-financing and that it would take around 8 years for the 
income to cover the initial cost. I think he means this to have been the cash price given his 
original complaint set out he was told the system would pay for the loan payments i.e., it 
would be self-funding within the loan term. Mr E has said he only agreed to the purchase 
because P told him the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to 
understand why, in this particular case, Mr E would have agreed to the installation if his 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly.  
Given the purchase order doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr E would have 
looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, what 
they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. 
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct in 2014, and it determined that P was in breach of a 
number of sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two 
sections relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to 
consumers and providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the 
product sold. 
 
While I appreciate the findings from RECC were for different cases I think they indicate there 
were conduct concerns in the areas related to Mr E’s complaint around the time he was sold 
the system. 
 
I’ve also looked at a copy of P’s website from May 2013 because Mr E says the financial 
benefits were discussed. On the main page it states – 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated -  
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mr E’s 
testimony that P’s representative told him the system would pay for itself.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of over £1,350 per year. But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mr E’s system 
achieved anywhere near the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the 
term of the agreement. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be 
estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have 
known that Mr E’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
system in the timescales stated verbally to him. I therefore find the representations that were 
likely made weren’t true. 
Considering Mr E’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the RECC findings; 
and that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr E a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr E’s account of what he was told by P, 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he 
would have seen this purchase appealing had P not given the reassurances he said he 
received.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr E expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr E went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr E’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr E in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr E and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr E a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr E’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Mr E more recently mentioned he had to pay to replace an inverter, but as this wasn’t part of 
the complaint brought to Creation, I think he’d need to take it up with Creation in the first 
instance if he wants to pursue that complaint.  
 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr E received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr E received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr E 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr E some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mr E also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr E’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.   
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr E’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr E has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr E’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr E should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr E 
• 
Pay Mr E £100 compensation 
*Where Mr E is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
