DRN-3313059
The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a complaint about a 
faulty sofa for which it provided the finance.
What happened
In or around August 2020 Mr Y bought a sofa from a retailer, D. He paid for it with a three-
year loan from Creation, set up under arrangements between Creation and D.
The sofa had some damage when it was delivered. Mr Y was told that someone would come 
out from D to inspect it. When D’s representative did attend, they carried out a repair to the 
sofa – Mr Y says without his consent. 
Mr Y complained to D and said that he should have had the option of rejecting the sofa and 
having either a refund or a replacement. D did not agree but offered Mr Y compensation of 
£150. Mr Y did not think this was fair and complained to Creation.
Creation said that there was little it could do. A repair had been done and Mr Y had been 
offered additional compensation which was fair in the circumstances. Mr Y referred the case 
to this service. Our investigator was broadly in agreement with Creation. She noted that the 
repair appeared to have been successful and did not recommend that Mr Y’s complaint 
about Creation be upheld. Mr Y said that he wanted to have a new sofa, not a repaired one, 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Y paid for the sofa with credit provided under arrangements between D and 
Creation, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if Mr Y has a claim 
for breach of contract against D, he has a like claim against Creation. 
D’s contract with Mr Y was to be read as including a provision that the sofa would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect, and includes 
matters such as appearance and finish, and freedom from minor defects. It does not appear 
to be in dispute that the sofa was not free of minor defects; that, and its appearance and 
finish, meant that it was not of satisfactory quality at delivery.  
I am satisfied however that the sofa was successfully repaired. It was put into the condition it 
should have been in when it was delivered.
A repair is one of a number of possible remedies available where goods are not of 
satisfactory quality. Others include replacement, rejection, a refund, or reduction of the price. 
Mr Y says he was not given any option, as a repair was done without his agreement. It does 
appear to me however that a repair was appropriate in this case, since the sofa was put into 
a satisfactory condition quickly and easily and at no cost to Mr Y. 
Mr Y did not contact Creation until after the sofa had been repaired. So, even if I thought Mr 
Y should have been given a choice of remedies, the problem with the sofa had been 
resolved by the time Creation became involved. I agree with the investigator that it would be 
disproportionate to conclude that Mr Y should also be entitled to reject the sofa. I note too 
that D offered Mr Y a further £150 by way of compensation.
In the circumstances, I think that Creation was entitled to take the view that D had done 
enough to resolve the case and that it, Creation, did not need to do any more. That was, in 
my view, a fair response to Mr Y’s complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to do any more to resolve Mr Y’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
