DRN-3493110
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a bed he financed through an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr R has been represented by his partner throughout this complaint but for ease, and 
because Mr R is named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R and I was really sorry to hear about the pain and discomfort his 
partner had been experiencing, but I’m afraid I agree with the investigator’s view of this 
complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made through a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If the bed or mattress was faulty then there may have been a breach of contract as it’s an 
implied condition of the contract that the goods are of satisfactory quality. But there’s no 
evidence here that the mattress or bed is of unsatisfactory quality. Mr R’s partner simply 
finds it, and its replacement, uncomfortable and painful to sleep on, but they admit there’s no 
fault with the goods.
I understand Mr R feels he was pressured into the sale and if there was evidence of that I 
may think there was a reason for Creation to uphold the complaint. But there is no record of 
the conversations Mr R or his partner had with the supplier and as Mr R signed the contract 
and agreed to its terms I don’t think I have sufficient evidence the bed was mis-sold to him.
Mr R also says he should have been allowed to return the bed within the 14-day cooling off 
period. Creation’s contact notes say an agreement was reached for Mr R’s partner to try the 
bed for a few more weeks and if that wasn’t successful they would consider a lower profile 
mattress. I can see that’s what the business eventually did, and I don’t think there’s evidence 
that Mr R asked to reject the bed until after the 14-day period had expired. 
So, whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr R and his partner, I’m afraid I don’t think 
there is sufficient evidence to persuade me Creation have done anything wrong here and I’m 
not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
