DRN-3803683
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) didn’t make payments from 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card from Creation with a limit of £10,000. He used a third-party payment 
card (which I will call A) to make payments, with the Creation credit card being debited with 
the transaction.  On 13 September 2021, he attempted a payment for £300. It was not made. 
On 8 September 2021, Creation stopped allowing its customers to use A.
Mr H complained. He said he hadn’t been notified that Creation were to stop using A. He 
then wasted time on the phone to Creation trying to sort things out. He said he got mixed 
messages from Creation to why the payment had failed. 
Creation said they’d made a business decision to stop using A. They said they sent a SMS 
text to all customers telling them about that and the new policy came into effect immediately. 
Creation said there wasn’t any law which said emails should be used. They said were within 
their rights to restrict any transactions without further reason, and there was no breach of 
their terms and conditions. 
Mr H didn’t agree with Creation. He said that the use of SMS texts to advise such a change  
wasn’t a reasonable method of communication. As it was, he was out of the UK when the 
text was sent – and was using a local phone with a local SIM card – so he didn’t get the text. 
He said that a better means of communication was by email or similar. He said there was 
nothing in Creation’s terms of business which said they could stop using a payment card 
such as A.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Creation had made a business 
decision to stop transactions involving A. That wasn’t something our service could change. 
And it was also up to Creation to carry out checks on certain transactions for possible fraud 
– and that’s what they’d done here.
Mr H didn’t agree – he said he had been told different things on the calls he made to 
Creation. He repeated that it wasn’t in Creations terms that they could stop using A; and he 
maintained that SMS texts were not a reasonable form of communication about such a 
matter. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint – and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service resolves individual disputes between customers 
and financial businesses. We aren’t the regulator of Creation – that’s the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). So – we don’t tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So – 
here, it’s for Creation to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its business. 
But we do say if a customer has, or hasn’t, been dealt with fairly and reasonably – based on 
the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
On 13 September 2021, Mr H tried to make a payment of £300 from his Creation credit card. 
It was stopped because Creation stopped using A. Thus is the crux of Mr H’s complaint – 
that he had no knowledge of this change.
In September 2021, Creation made a business decision to stop allowing their card to be 
used as part of the payment card A. This caused transactions attempted by Mr H to be 
declined. I can see that Creation sent text messages to customers on 8 September 2021. It 
said: “with immediate effect we will be unable to process any transactions using your (A) 
card”. He was on holiday at the time and didn’t get Creation’s text. And he also made the 
point to us that it was common practice for people to use a local SIM card (therefore use a 
local phone service) while abroad – as this was cheaper than paying roaming charges with a 
UK phone. And that’s what he had done – so he didn’t get the text. He says that using text 
messaging as a means of communication isn’t viable – and email is better.
I hear what he says here. And I’ve considered his points. The FCA’s guidance is that 
communications should be clear and not misleading. Which - looking at the text message, I 
think it’s reasonable to say it was. And so I have to say that SMS text was a reasonable way 
for Creation to advise its customers about the change. I accept that Mr H was out of the 
country and using a locally enabled phone - and so wouldn’t have got the text – but I can’t 
hold Creation responsible for that.
Creation also told us that Mr H changed his mobile number with them on 18 September 
2021 and showed us the evidence that was done then. So – even if Mr H had opened his 
texts on his UK phone while abroad, he wouldn’t have got Creation’s text dated 8 September 
2021 anyway – as he hadn’t at that stage advised Creation of his new number. But – it’s 
reasonable to expect customers to advise a firm if their phone number has changed, and it 
appears that Mr H didn’t do that until after the change in policy regarding A.
I agree that Creation can take its own business decision about whether to allow the use of A 
with its credit cards – that’s not something we can interfere with, as I have set out. But I 
wanted to confirm whether Creation’s terms and conditions allow them to make that change 
– and Mr H has raised that point.
And Creation’s terms and conditions say at section 5.5: “… You may instruct a Third Party 
Provider (TPP) to access information on your Account or make certain transactions from 
your online Account….We will treat any instruction received from a TPP as if it was from you 
and the terms and conditions of this agreement will continue to apply….. We may refuse to 
allow a TPP to access your Account if we reasonably suspect fraudulent or unauthorised 
activity on their part. We will tell you before we do this unless it is impractical to do so or 
unlawful.” Therefore – Creation were entitled to stop using A if they wished in line with its 
terms, and these also say they would advise customers - which I’m satisfied they did.
We asked Creation for the calls that Mr H referred to in his complaint. Creation told us they 
were no longer available given the passage of time – they have been deleted. So – we can’t 
check the information that Mr H was given on why the payment was declined. Creation 
showed us a note of the call made by Mr H on 13 September 2021 – and the notes says he 
was advised about the decision to stop using A. So that looks to be consistent with what 
happened. Therefore, I’m persuaded that Creation gave Mr H the correct information when 
he called them.
Mr H had argued his complaint with us in detail, and he will be disappointed by my decision, 
but I’m not asking Creation to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman
