DRN-3451591
The complaint
Ms E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2019 Ms E purchased some new furniture from a supplier and entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Ms E discovered that one of the items had a defect. The supplier refunded £300 to Ms E 
and subsequently ceased trading. Ms E contacted Creation to raise a section 75 claim. 
Creation accepted that the item had a fault and advised Ms E that she would need to have 
the furniture repaired.
Ms E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to 
return the furniture and have the agreement cancelled.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Creation should have given Ms E the 
option of cancelling the agreement, receiving a refund and returning the goods, as well 
as the option to have the goods repaired or replaced. The investigator said that because 
the furniture was faulty at the point of supply, Creation should have cancelled the loan 
and refunded all payments made by Ms E, less the £300 already credited.
Creation didn’t agree. It said that although there was a manufacturing fault with the 
furniture, Ms E hadn’t told Creation about the fault until July 2020, almost 2 years after the 
point of supply. It said that it had contacted the supplier, who had advised that Ms E had 
been offered a replacement item but had then changed her mind and accepted a credit of 
£300 to keep the furniture. Creation said it had offered to pay for repairs to the item and 
refund the cost of the inspection report. It said it had then received an email from Ms E 
advising that she was progressing a claim with her credit card company. Creation said it 
was entitled to offer a repair because no previous repairs had been attempted. It said it 
wanted to see evidence that the claim hadn’t been settled by the credit card company.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against a supplier 
of goods or a provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
In order to uphold Ms E’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 
75 wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have 
occurred.
In this case, there’s no dispute that there was a manufacturing fault with the recliner. Ms 
E obtained an inspection report which says that the recliner was faulty at the point of 
supply.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that the recliner had a fault which made it of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied. So, I’m satisfied that for the purposes of section 75, 
a breach of contract has occurred.
The inspection report states that the recliner has a manufacturing fault. Because the 
recliner was faulty at the point of supply, I think Ms E should have been given the option to 
cancel the agreement and receive a full refund (as well as the option to have the item 
repaired or replaced). These options are consistent with Ms E’s rights under the relevant 
legislation.
I appreciate that Creation weren’t told about the fault until July 2020. Based on what I’ve 
seen, I’m satisfied that the fault was present at the point of supply and that Ms E raised 
her claim under section 75 with Creation as soon as she realised she was able to do so.
I’ve thought about whether the credit provided by the supplier impacts on Ms E’s rights 
under the relevant legislation. I don’t think it affects her right to bring a claim under section 
75, but I think the credit of £300 should be taken account of.
I’ve read Creations comments regarding Ms E’s claim against her credit card provider. I’ve 
seen information which shows that the credit card provider refunded the deposit paid on 
the credit card, so this doesn’t affect any refund of sums paid under the loan agreement.
Putting things right
Based on everything I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract and that 
Ms E is entitled to return the goods for a full refund. I don’t think Creation acted fairly when 
it told Ms E it would arrange for a repair of the goods, because it didn’t offer Ms E the 
option to cancel the agreement, which is one of the options available to her under the 
relevant legislation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must: Cancel the agreement
Arrange for the furniture to be collected at no cost to Ms E
Refund all payments made by Ms E under the loan agreement less the £300 credit 
alreadypaid, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of the inspection report (£48)
Pay £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience Remove the agreement from Me E’s 
credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
