 
 
DRN-5080642 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Ms C has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from September 2024, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that Ms C was induced into 
buying the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by misrepresentations, which 
resulted in there being an unfair relationship between her and Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Neither has responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
 
 
“What happened 
 
In October 2013, Ms C bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “I” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
 
Ms C complained to Creation, she said that she was told by I that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and electricity savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments, however that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. She also 
believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
herself and Creation. 
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Ms C had brought her 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms C referred her complaint to our service. 
 
An adjudicator considered Ms C’s complaint, he ultimately thought that – 
  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms C and 
Creation.  
 
 
He recommended that Ms C keep the system and Creation take into account what Ms C had 
paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. He also recommended an award of £100 distress and inconvenience as a result of 
the poor and protracted way in which Creation had dealt with this matter. 
 
Ms C accepted the adjudicator’s view. Creation has never responded. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Having done so, I’m planning to uphold it, and I’ll explain why. 
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms C’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms C’s s.75 claim on 
22 December 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Ms C 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 2 May 2022. So, her complaint 
in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
I am also satisfied this aspect of the complaint was brought in time so that the Financial 
Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Ms C is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between herself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship 
with her. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the 
assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. A 
court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, 
including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard 
to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making 
the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in 
Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
 
 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is ongoing, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Ms C’s case the relationship was ongoing when she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Ms C unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in her 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between herself and Creation, Ms C 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time she referred her complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Ms C’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by I can be considered 
under s.140A, I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or not 
done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation 
by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and important aspects of a 
transaction. 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming I to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations 
and arrangements by I for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when considering 
whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms C. 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Ms C has said that she was told by I’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make on her 
electricity charges. Ms C says she saw an advert on the internet and then spoke to at least 
one sales representative from I, and I haven’t seen any evidence she had any prior interest in 
purchasing solar panels. 
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Ms C to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
 
 
 
I have a copy of the loan agreement, which shows that both the total amount payable, and the 
monthly cost of the loan were clear to Ms C.  However, there is no mention on the agreement 
of the potential benefits of the panels. 
 
Ms C has kindly provided as much documentation as she can, including some which is from 
the time of sale and created by I, such as warranty documents and a certificate confirming the 
panels complied with building regulations. There is one page headed, “Predicted System 
Performance”, which mentions an annual cost saving of just under £400. But there are also 
several documents from I setting out the “total cost” of the system without the interest payable 
on the loan that I arranged for Ms C. So I cannot conclude that the documentation provided 
set out clearly and accessibly the monthly or annual cost of the system (including interest) 
versus the potential financial benefits via energy bill savings and FIT payments. 
 
Unfortunately, I haven’t been able to access any archived content from I’s website from the 
time of the sale, but I have found some from 2014. Whilst I am unable to place any significant 
weight on it, given the timeline, I also don’t think it’s entirely irrelevant when considering the 
likely content and tone of the information I would have given Ms C – both verbally and in 
writing. In the ‘FAQs’ section, I explains that, “Nearly all systems become self funding, 
meaning that the financial rewards far out way [sic] the cost of your system.” 
 
This lends further weight to Ms C’s testimony, which I find to be believable. Given the credit 
agreement and other documents about the cost of the system, don’t contain information about 
the benefits, Ms C would have looked to I’s representatives to help her understand what the 
panels would bring in and how much she would benefit from the system. As mentioned, I’ve 
seen no evidence of any motivation other than a financial one on Ms C’s part to agree to the 
panel installation. I’m of the opinion that money would be a key reason to purchase the 
system and her savings on her electricity bills and income from the FIT scheme would have 
been a central part of the conversation with the salespeople. That is particularly pertinent 
given what Ms C has told us about her income and financial commitments at the time, which 
do not suggest large amounts of disposable income. On balance, I think it is more likely than 
not that Ms C would not have agreed to the installation of the panels if I had made it clear that 
it would leave her out of pocket. 
 
When thinking about the above I’m also mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against I. My understanding is that the RECC administers 
the renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code. 
 
The RECC investigated I’s conduct and informed I of its concerns in 2014. Significantly, 
RECC had concerns about I using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
 
So, the Panel decided I was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about I’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate I’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Ms C has 
complained about, at a similar time she was sold her system. 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision:  
 
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [I’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Creation has also confirmed to this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with I. This is also set out in I’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 available 
on the Companies House website. The report states that mis-selling issues by I were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with I and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions very clearly 
demonstrate that it had serious concerns about the way I was selling solar panel systems. 
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of just under £1,200 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Ms C’s 
system was not performing as expected, but her system has not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think I’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Ms 
C’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the 
calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think I’s 
representative would have known that Ms C’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Ms C. 
 
Considering Ms C’s account about what she was told; the available documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale; the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts; and the 
subsequent actions taken against I by both the RECC and Creation itself, I think it extremely 
likely I gave Ms C a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar 
panel system.  
 
I consider I’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms C was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that I’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis 
upon which Ms C went into the transaction. Either way, I think I’s assurances were seriously 
misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms C’s point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for I’s negotiations with Ms C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Ms C 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Ms C’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation  
 
 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms C and Creation’s relationship arising out of I’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Ms 
C a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a result of 
M’s assurances. That is, that Ms C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, I plan to direct Creation to recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Ms C received from the system over 
the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important 
to consider the benefit Ms C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Ms C will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, cited by Creation in its rejection of the adjudicator’s 
view. But this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. 
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, and even if I 
am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should 
be based on Ms C’s expectation of what she would receive. I consider Ms C has lost out, and 
has suffered unfairness in her relationship with Creation, to the extent that her loan 
repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels.  
 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Ms C. Creation 
should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or direction 
(or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court would award 
or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is 
intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Ms C’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Ms C some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Ms C £100.” 
 
As mentioned above, neither Ms C nor Creation has replied to my provisional decision. 
Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out therein. And so it follows 
that I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Ms C, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must now: 
  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Ms C has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Ms C’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Ms C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Ms C  
*If Ms C is not able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or FIT 
benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Ms C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
I also think the way Creation handled Ms C’s complaint has caused her trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
