DRN-3187983
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t closed his account 
despite his requests. 
What happened
Mr G holds a credit facility of £5,000 with Creation. Creation refer to this as a ‘Your Plan’ 
account. Mr G purchased a television from a store and used his Creation account to pay for 
this. Mr G says when the store delivered the television the drivers were rude and drove away 
without delivering his television. 
Mr G then called Creation on 20 October 2020 to complain. The phone note says Mr G 
wasn’t happy with the delivery drivers, he says they arrived before the expected delivery 
time, they were rude and then refused to deliver the television and took it away. The note 
says Mr G wanted the purchase cancelled and Creation referred him to the store. Creation 
note Mr G’s desired outcome is to cancel the finance and to receive compensation. Creation 
then wrote to Mr G on 23 October and confirmed they understand his complaint is that he’s 
unhappy with the service received from the store and he wants his agreement cancelled. 
Creation then respond to Mr G’s complaint on 14 December and say they understand he’s 
unhappy that his agreement hasn’t been cancelled and the service provided by the store. 
Creation confirm the agreement was cancelled in October and ask Mr G to note that 
cancellations have to be sent through to them by the store and they can’t process them 
without instructions from the store. In relation to the service provided by the store, Creation 
provide contact details for the complaints department at the store.  
Mr G emailed Creation on 17 December and said he wasn’t happy with their response. He 
said he asked Creation, during his call in October, to close his account but, having checked 
his credit file, he could see it was still showing as open. Mr G asked for his Creation account 
to be closed. Creation emailed Mr G on 30 December to say the email address used by him 
to send his email on 17 December didn’t match the email they held for him on their records, 
so they asked him to contact them by phone to close his account. They said this was for 
security purposes. Creation then wrote to Mr G the same day and said they understand he 
wants to close his account but they can’t see this was requested previously. They say if     
Mr G had made this request to the store then Creation wouldn’t have been aware of this and 
wouldn’t be able to proceed without Mr G’s authorisation. 
Creation asked Mr G to call them to close the account or to email them using the email 
address they have for him on their records (which they provide in their letter).  
 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr G and Creation on 22 November 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
“Mr G’s account and credit limit 
I think it’s important for me to firstly address the issue about Mr G’s credit limit with 
Creation. I can see our investigator says Mr G already had an account with a credit 
facility of £5,000 but was then, unnecessarily, given a second account with a credit 
facility of £3,000 for the purchase of the television. 
I can see Mr G’s credit file shows his Creation account with a limit of £5,000. His 
credit file shows another account with a company with an almost similar name. The 
credit limit on this account is for £3,000. Creation say they have carried out a search 
of their systems but they can only find one account which Mr G holds with them – 
that being the ‘Your Plan’ account with a credit limit of £5,000. They confirm Mr G 
doesn’t hold a second account with them with a credit limit of £3,000. Creation say 
the account with a £3,000 credit limit appears to be a credit card account which is 
something they offer as part of their portfolio of lending. They say they carried out a 
search to see if they could find a credit card account for Mr G but they couldn’t find 
any records. They say this suggests it’s an old account which has now been archived 
– and they say this is reinforced by the fact that the credit file shows a zero balance 
on that account.  
Creation have provided system notes which show Mr G holds a ‘Your Plan’ account. 
And, he has had two agreements on this account. The first was in March 2020 and 
relates to an item Mr G purchased for £369. This was paid off by Mr G in August 
2020. The second agreement started on 14 October 2020 and relates to the 
purchase of a television for around £300. The system notes show this agreement 
was cancelled by the store on 22 October. 
Creation’s system notes don’t show Mr G having two credit limits – there only 
appears to be one limit for £5,000. I’m persuaded this is the case as, at the time of 
the first agreement, the system notes show Mr G’s credit limit and available credit as 
£5,000. The first agreement then comes to an end with Mr G paying the balance. 
Then, at the time of the second agreement, Mr G’s credit limit is still £5,000 but his 
available spend is now £4,700 – this shows the price of the television has been 
deducted from a credit limit of £5,000. So, I don’t think Mr G has two accounts with 
Creation. There were two agreements on the same account, but the credit limit has 
always remained at £5,000. 
Mr G’s request for his account to be closed     
The terms and conditions of Mr G’s account says he or Creation can close the 
account by giving written notice to the other. 
The information I’ve seen shows Creation did receive a written request from Mr G to 
close his account but this was on 17 December. Creation didn’t close the account at 
this point as the email they receive isn’t from the email address they hold for Mr G. 
I’ve looked at the email address they hold for Mr G and it is different to the email 
address Mr G uses to send his request on 17 December. It’s only a subtle difference 
but the fact remains it’s from an email address different to the one Creation hold. So, 
I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to ask Mr G to either call or email from 
the address they hold for him in order to close his account. 
It’s not clear whether Creation have now closed this account but if Mr G still wishes 
for Creation to close his account then he will need to let Creation know through the 
communication channels they have suggested. 
I am sorry to hear about Mr G’s experience on the day his television was delivered 
but I can only look at his complaint about Creation and not the store. Mr G will need 
to raise these with the store if he hasn’t done so already.” 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr G or Creation, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Creation have responded to say they don’t have any 
further comments to make. Mr G has responded and says he doesn’t agree with the 
decision. He says Creation have wasted his time and didn’t remove the accounts when he 
asked them to. He says he wants compensation for the false impression created on his 
credit file and giving him an unnecessary credit limit of £8,000 to carry out a purchase of 
£300. As both parties have responded, I don’t see any reason to delay my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.  
In relation to Mr G’s comments, I do acknowledge Mr G feels his time has been wasted but I 
can’t say Creation have refused to remove his account. The information I’ve seen shows 
Creation have a process which customers need to follow to close their account. Mr G has 
followed this process by requesting in writing for his account to be closed but I don’t think it’s 
unreasonable for Creation not to have done this given the concern they have following the 
request being from an email address they don’t have on record. I think Creation have then 
set out reasonable options for Mr G to provide verification in order to close his account.  
I note Mr G’s request for compensation but I would only consider awarding this if I find 
Creation have made an error which has had an impact on Mr G. I can’t say that’s the case 
here as the evidence I have seen shows Mr G holds one account with Creation with a credit 
limit of £5,000. I can’t see Mr G was given a second account with an additional credit limit of 
£3,000. So, I can’t say any error by Creation has created a false impression on Mr G’s credit 
file. So, I won’t be asking Creation to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman
