DRN-3221127
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were wrong to reject a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won’t repeat them again here 
but will focus my comments on my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with running 
credit such as this, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mrs C bought a laptop, USB stick and antivirus software from the supplier and there was 
also a charge for set up. The total charge was £700.
It’s clear that the laptop broke soon after it was supplied. The supplier’s notes say, “Display 
fault…not customers fault” and I’m persuaded it was therefore likely the laptop wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and that there’s therefore been a breach of contract here.
I think the set-up charge and the ancillary products that Mrs C bought were costs she 
incurred as a consequence of buying the laptop. Without the laptop I’ve not seen evidence 
that Mrs C would have use of those additional items.
Whilst it seems the supplier offered a refund of the cost of the laptop Mrs C has explained 
she didn’t receive that money. I’ve seen copies of her main bank account statements and no 
refund is showing. So, I think Creation were unreasonable when they rejected Mrs C’s 
section 75 complaint.
Putting things right
Creation should therefore refund the £100 deposit Mrs C paid and refund any payments Mrs 
C has made towards the credit agreement in respect of this purchase. They’ll need to end 
this agreement with nothing more to pay towards it.
The relevant legislation allows Creation to deduct money from any refund for any use the 
consumer has had from the goods but here I’m not persuaded a refund would be reasonable 
as I can’t see sufficient evidence Mrs C had any use.
The business should also ensure that they remove any adverse reports they may have made 
to Mrs C’s credit file in relation to this purchase.
As I can’t see that Creation explained their decision properly to Mrs C I think they should 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused and, in the circumstances, I 
would agree with the investigator that they should pay £75 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
End the agreement for the purchase of this equipment with nothing more to pay.
Refund the £100 deposit adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs C’s credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Pay Mrs C £75 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
