DRN-3280780
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased a fridge freezer from a retailer and entered into a finance agreement with 
Creation.
Mrs M experienced problems with the freezer not freezing properly. She reported this to the 
retailer, who arranged for an inspection and agreed that it was faulty. The retailer said it 
would arrange for the fridge freezer to be collected and issue a refund.
In the meantime, Mrs M purchased a new fridge from the retailer. She didn’t have room for 
two fridges and asked the retailer to arrange collection of the old fridge. The retailer told Mrs 
M to ask the driver who was delivering her new fridge to collect the old one. In November 
2020, Mrs M’s new fridge was delivered, and the old fridge was collected.
Mrs M didn’t receive a refund, so she contacted the retailer. The retailer said it had no record 
of the old fridge being collected and said it couldn’t issue a refund.
Mrs M was unhappy about this and raised a section 75 claim with Creation. In response, 
Creation said that because there was no evidence that the fridge had been collected, it was 
rejecting the claim.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint on the grounds that the retailer had supplied Mrs M 
with an item which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. The investigator said it was likely that Mrs M 
had returned the faulty item and recommended that Creation issue a full refund.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs M’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 
wasn’t fair or reasonable.
Mrs M has said that the fridge freezer was faulty. The relevant law says that goods must be 
of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a 
breach of contract can be said to have occurred and I’d expect the business to put things 
right. 
I’ve looked at the available evidence. The retailer accepted that the fridge freezer was faulty. 
This establishes that there was a breach of contract, because the goods weren’t of 
satisfactory quality.
The real issue in this case is whether the faulty item has been returned. Mrs M has said that 
it was collected by the retailer’s delivery driver when her new fridge was delivered. However, 
the retailer has said that there’s no record of the fridge being returned.
Mrs M has provided evidence that she was advised by the retailer to return the fridge via the 
delivery driver. Her testimony about this has been clear and consistent. On the balance of 
probability, I think it’s likely that Mrs M did return the fridge via the delivery driver. I’m 
persuaded that it wouldn’t have been possible for Mrs M to store two fridge freezers in her 
home because these are large items. I don’t think Mrs M had any reason not to do what the 
retailer had advised her to do i.e. return the fridge via the delivery driver when he delivered 
her new fridge. It would not have benefitted Mrs M to retain a faulty fridge. In the 
circumstances, I think its more likely that the fridge was returned and that the retailer can’t 
locate the relevant paperwork.
Putting things right
I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract and I don’t think Creations response to 
the section 75 claim was fair or reasonable. Creation must refund the total cost of the fridge 
freezer plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must refund 
Mrs M the sum of £399 together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. It must also remove any adverse information from Mrs M’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
