DRN-2954820
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in May 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they clearly weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint (brought on his behalf by a claims management company) was considered 
by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-represented 
to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the 
panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. She also recommended 
that Creation pay Mr W £100 for his trouble.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Neither party has provided me with a copy of the loan agreement. Mr W did not keep his 
copy, which I infer is because of his learning difficulties (of which I have seen medical 
evidence in the form of a letter from his doctor). I asked Creation for a copy, but it did not 
respond. Nevertheless, I have been able to ascertain from the evidence I do have that the 
loan term was for seven years and that Mr W had to pay £96.36 a month, which adds up to 
£1,156.32 a year. Creation has not disputed that his estimated benefit from the panels would 
have been less than that.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Normally, I would require Creation to compensate Mr W by recalculating the original loan 
based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels over 
the seven year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
However, I have seen evidence confirming that Mr W never registered for his feed-in tariff 
(FIT), and so his benefit from the panels has been even less than was estimated. It is now 
too late for him to register. On the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely than not 
that his failure to register was because of his learning difficulties. Whether or not Creation 
realised that he had learning difficulties at the time, I think that Creation should bear the 
resulting additional loss, since Mr W would not have found himself in that position if he had 
not been sold the panels, and the panels were mis-sold.
So, having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the seven year term of the loan – but disregarding the estimated FIT income – 
and to restructure the loan so he pays no more than that. Creation should recalculate the 
loan to put Mr W in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the seven 
year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
Mr W may also keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has 
ended.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I will direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted my provisional findings. Creation did not respond by the deadline. So there is 
no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
