 
 
DRN-4603663 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t help him regarding finance for IT 
equipment. 
 
What happened 
In October 2022 Mr G took out a running account credit agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay for a suite of IT equipment for gaming from a retailer. When the IT 
equipment was delivered it was missing the PC element of what Mr G had ordered. Mr G 
then cancelled his direct debit to repay the finance. He couldn’t get anywhere with the 
retailer about the issues with the order so he complained to Creation. 
 
Creation considered his dispute with the retailer and considered it under a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“S75” and “CCA” for short). It noted that the 
finance had been amended to reflect the missing PC and that the money owed had reduced 
significantly to the removal of that element of the gaming suite bought. It paid Mr G just over 
£30 for a mistake in the administration of his account due to a clerical error by the retailer. 
However it also noted that Mr G hadn’t paid anything to the account at all. So it felt the 
charges and interest applied (once corrected) were fair in the circumstances. Feeling that 
Creation’s position to be unfair Mr G brought his complaint to this service. 
 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she felt that Creation had fairly treated Mr G. 
Mr G didn’t agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the retailer who sold the equipment 
which isn’t a financial services provider and doesn’t fall within my remit regarding Section 75. 
And this decision is solely about how Creation treated Mr G. I hope this distinction is clear.  
 
I should also note that Mr G has raised a large number of issues in this dispute. I’ve 
considered them all. However I’ve chosen to address those arguments which he’s raised 
which I see as key to this dispute and key to reaching a fair outcome on this matter. 
 
The CCA 
 
I can see that Creation looked into the matter and accepted that Mr G didn’t receive the PC 
so it removed that amount from Mr G’s account with it and adjusted the interest accordingly. 
Mr G in his comments here makes clear that was what was agreed albeit it took some time 
for his account to be amended. 
 
Mr G has steadfastly refused to pay Creation over this issue notwithstanding that he 
received hundreds of pounds of other goods from the retailer which he had ordered and 
received as agreed. I can see evidence from days after entering the contract where he says 
 
 
he wont pay in October 2022. I can also see comments in response to our investigator 
where he refuses to pay well into 2024. Mr G entered a contract which makes clear in the 
terms that if he doesn’t pay then it will charge interest and fees and will report on his credit 
file. Just because there was an error in not delivering some of the goods doesn’t mean Mr G 
gets to keep the goods that were delivered and not pay for them. Mr G had a number of 
ways he could have paid Creation and refused to do so. I see no reason for Creation to 
remove charges and interest accrued due to non-payment for the goods Mr G received. I 
see no persuasive reason for Creation not to fulfil its reporting obligations to credit reference 
agencies in this matter either. I also see no persuasive reason why Creation cannot use debt 
recovery agencies to collect what is owed. 
 
Mr G says he was blocked from accessing his account by Creation. I don’t think this makes a 
difference to the overall issues here whether it was the case or not. Mr G called them on 
occasions and could have paid over the phone or restarted the direct debit. I think the 
reason Mr G didn’t pay was because of his often repeated stance of refusing to do so. 
 
Mr G says he wants a new agreement and to make the agreed new payments after Creation 
agreed to remove the PC element of his finance. I see no reason to conclude Creation has 
acted unfairly here. The main reason Mr G still owes a significant amount of money here is 
because he made the decision, pretty much at the outset of this agreement, that he wasn’t 
going to pay despite receiving some of the goods he purchased. Creation is not responsible 
for that decision. And it has taken actions as a result of that which Mr G agreed to in the 
contract in the event of his not paying. 
 
Mr G disputes the amending of his account regarding the removal of the PC element of the 
finance. I can see an entry in March 2023 where £1299 is removed. And Creation explains 
that was the amount for the PC. As I can see the balance owed decreased by that amount at 
that time, so I’m satisfied the PC amount was removed as agreed. 
 
Mr G says the goods he received were worth £400 but Creation want “£750”. Firstly the 
agreement made was interest bearing so he was always going to pay back more than he 
borrowed. Secondly Creation have been applying interest and charges due to Mr G’s 
decision not to pay. The fact that these extra costs have been applied is due to Mr G not 
paying. Creation has treated him fairly in this regard. 
 
Mr G has repeatedly argued that if you only receive some of the goods you shouldn’t have to 
pay anything. I disagree. He received goods from the retailer who was paid for the goods by 
Creation. Creation had an agreement with Mr G for it to pay back the money it paid the 
retailer. Just because the retailer didn’t send all the goods doesn’t mean Mr G doesn’t owe 
Creation the money it lent to him. He agreed to pay it and then refused to fulfil that 
agreement. 
 
Mr G has said he’s tried to sort out this matter throughout. But as he’s also clear that 
throughout that time that he refuses to pay. Creation hasn’t treated him unfairly. 
 
In response to the Investigator’s assessment of the matter Mr G has said that the 
investigator sided with the business because it put its arguments better than he did. I think 
Creation has fairly remedied the issues it needed to. And the main issue here that has led to 
the difficulties Mr G has encountered is his unwillingness to honour the agreement he made 
by paying what was agreed. 
 
Mr G has said the account didn’t show the right figures. I think from after the point Creation 
issued its final response letter and taken the corrective actions it said it would that the 
account has shown the correct amount, including the charges for Mr G not paying. 
 
 
 
Mr G says that when he calls them it tries to make things as hard as possible for him. 
Creation is entitled to ensure it protects consumer information by asking people contacting it 
to prove who they say they are. I’m not persuaded Creation has some form of vendetta 
against him. 
 
Mr G says Creation shouldn’t chase him for the money he owes whilst his complaint is at this 
service. I disagree. Both parties accept Mr G borrowed from Creation and hasn’t been 
making payments. Creation hasn’t acted unfairly by trying to recover the money Mr G owes 
it. 
 
So in short Mr G’s complaint is unsuccessful. Creation hasn’t treated him unfairly. I suggest 
all parties (including the debt recovery agency Creation has engaged) make significant 
efforts to contact each other come to an arrangement how to remedy this matter. Otherwise 
this situation will continue to get worse and worse and the parties more entrenched. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. It has nothing further to do on this matter. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2024. 
  
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas 
Ombudsman 
 
