DRN-3116635
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) had an incorrect address 
for him on their system. He is also unhappy with the customer service he received from 
them.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr G purchased electrical goods from a supplier who I will refer to as ‘S’. 
He funded the purchase of these goods through a credit agreement with Creation. Mr G says 
that during the purchase process he provided his current address and his previous address, 
because he was living at the current address for less than three years.  
In December 2020, Mr G contacted Creation as he said he didn’t receive any paperwork 
from them. He said that, during this call, he realised that Creation had an incorrect address 
as they had his previous address on their system. He said that, had he not contacted them, 
he could’ve gone into arrears which would’ve affected his credit file, and he would’ve ended 
up paying higher interest. Also, Mr G said that if Creation sent anything to his previous 
address this would’ve been a breach of data protection legislation. 
Mr G was also unhappy that the ink on the receipts that he got from S was slowly 
disappearing due to being printed on certain type of paper; and with the agent he spoke to 
when he called Creation, who didn’t give their name at the beginning of the call.  
In February 2021, Creation wrote to Mr G and said that their system captures information
provided on the application that has been electronically sent by S. They said the original 
contract Mr G signed electronically in the store in October 2020, contained his previous 
address. In that correspondence they also explained that their contract wouldn’t have been 
sent in the post, as there is an option for S to print him a copy at the time of purchase, and 
that on their system there is no evidence of any information being sent to that incorrect 
address in question. 
In this correspondence, Creation also said that they had listened to the calls Mr G had with 
their agents in December 2020, and they found that one agent didn’t give their name at the 
beginning of the call. They said that all their agents should answer calls with their name and 
the company name, so they apologised for this and said this will be raised with that 
individual’s manager. Regarding the ink disappearing on the receipts, Creation explained 
that this is something Mr G would have to raise directly with S. 
Mr G was not happy with their response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldn’t be upheld.  
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities, 
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint, but I want to
assure both parties that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment
on something, it’s not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr G says that Creation had a duty of care to check that his address was correct on their 
system, and that they should’ve checked his address matches with what is noted on his 
credit file. He feels that, even if S provided Creation with the incorrect address, he feels that 
Creation had a duty of care to ensure they have the correct details for him. He has also 
mentioned that S delivered the items he purchased to his correct address, so he doesn’t 
think it was S that gave Creation the incorrect address.  
Creation said that all the information submitted by S for credit approval did relate to Mr G, 
including his old address. They said that, because the address was connected to him on his 
credit file, they were able to confirm that he was the correct person and the credit application 
was able to proceed. They also said that Mr G signed the credit agreement confirming the 
details submitted were correct, including the address on the credit agreement.
I think that Mr G had the right to have inaccurate personal data rectified, and I can see that 
when he called Creation in December 2020, they had rectified the incorrect address they 
held for him. They did this quickly and without any delay, so I think they have acted 
reasonably and fairly, once they were aware of the mistake. I understand that Mr G is 
unhappy and that he thinks Creation should’ve done more to make sure they had his correct 
address earlier, but I’ve also taken into consideration that Mr G did sign his credit agreement 
with the incorrect address on there. And I’ve also taken into consideration what impact the 
incorrect address had on Mr G.
Creation explained that Mr G opted for paper statements, but these didn’t start until February 
2021, which is after they’d already spoken with Mr G and updated his address. Creation also 
provided our service with a print screen of Mr G’s account and explained that, if any letters 
were sent prior to February 2021, there would be a specific code displayed on the account. 
Considering the circumstances of this complaint, and from the evidence I’ve been provided, I 
think most likely no personal information was sent to the incorrect address. 
I know Mr G questions what would’ve happened had he not contacted Creation. But Mr G 
has not suffered a loss because of what has happened. Thus, I cannot comment and take 
into consideration what might have happened, as we consider each complaint on its own 
merits and based on its own specific set of circumstances. And I’m unable to direct Creation 
to pay compensation for a hypothetical situation that did not arise.
Mr G was also unhappy that, when he called Creation, an agent of theirs didn’t give their 
name at the beginning of the call. But I can see that Creation apologised for this and said 
this will be raised with that individual’s manager, which I think is reasonable considering the 
circumstances. 
I also don’t think they need to take any further action relating to the ink disappearing on the 
receipts provided to Mr G by S. I say this because if he is unhappy about this issue, he 
should directly raise this with S.
I sympathise with Mr G, but taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I 
think that Creation has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with his complaint. So, it is 
not fair or reasonable for me to require Creation to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman
