 
 
DRN-4128101 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr M has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr M throughout.  
What happened 
In June 2015 Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,170.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £118.09. There was a £135 arrangement fee and interest of 
£5,035.80.  
I understand Mr M paid off the agreement early in September 2016. 
In August 2022 Mr M sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said S told him he’d effectively be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said S told him his energy bills would go down; he’d receive 
a guaranteed income for 20 years; he’d earn up to 10% annually tax free; his property value 
would increase; and the system was maintenance free with a 25-year life expectancy. He 
said the system was misrepresented and believed statements and several other actions at 
the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in January 2023 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr M decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2023.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr M the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and she thought S had 
misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr M and 
Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. She 
thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings and 
income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
Mr M agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr M. Here I understand the relationship 
ended in September 2016. Mr M put in his claim and complaint with Creation within six years 
of that – in August 2022 – so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr M says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr M says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr M to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
Mr M has also supplied other point of sale documentation such as installation certificates; 
warranty documentation; MCS certificate; a quotation with Standard Estimation Method 
calculations; and sun shading information. While Mr M would have seen the estimated yield 
of the system, I can’t see the documentation had information clearly presented that would 
 
 
have enabled him to compare the overall costs to the estimated benefits he’d receive. There 
was nothing in the documentation I’ve seen that set out the estimated financial benefits of 
the system.  
Mr M told us more about the sale. He reiterated S told him the benefits from the system 
would cover the cost of the loan. He said S’s salesperson was pushy and made him feel like 
he’d lose out or miss the deal if he didn’t agree to the purchase straight away. He also said 
S’s salesperson had changed firms around the time he bought the system and that he later 
found out the type of panels that were installed were inferior and not the ones that were 
originally being sold. Mr M said he felt that S mis-sold the system on many levels. Mr M said 
he felt embarrassed by being mis-led and that he didn’t know at the time he could complain. 
He said he tried to mitigate the losses by paying off the agreement early. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr M said happened. Yet Mr M left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£118.09, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr M’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £1,400 per year. However, I don’t think the 
system would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these 
statements were not true. I think S’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr M’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think S’s 
representative would have known that Mr M’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr M. 
Considering Mr M’s account about what he was told, the documentation and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr M a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr M was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr M went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr M’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr M in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr M 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
The s.75 complaint 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr M’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr M and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr M a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr M’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr M received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr M received (or will receive) by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr M will need to supply up to date details, where available, 
of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr M’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr M some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to 
what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr M £100. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the monthly repayments and settlement payment) Mr M 
has made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his 
complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr M’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received (or would 
be due to receive) up until the end of the loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr M should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr M 
• 
Pay Mr M an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr M is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
