DRN-3247201
The complaint
Mr H has complained on behalf of The Estate of Mr F that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
rejected its claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. Mr F was 71 at the point 
of sale and he passed away in 2019. Mr H says that Mr F was in poor health at the time of 
sale and had an equity release mortgage. Mr H doesn’t think the loan was appropriate given 
Mr F’s circumstances. Since Mr F passed away, the property (with the solar panels) has 
been sold.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t agree so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this complaint. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
In deciding what would be appropriate redress, I’ve considered Mr F’s circumstances at the 
time of sale. 
I don’t think it would be appropriate for all the loan payments to be refunded, because Mr F 
will have obtained some benefit from having the solar panels. However, given his age and 
poor health, I think it would be appropriate in this case for the redress to be based on the 
benefit Mr F and his estate is likely to have obtained from the solar panels before the 
property was sold, rather than over the full term of the loan.
My understanding is that Mr F’s solar panels were not registered for the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) 
scheme – so he received no payments from this. As such, Creation should not account for 
FIT payments in its redress calculations. It may only account for the savings Mr F and his 
estate would’ve made on energy bills (from using some of the electricity generated) up until 
the point the property was sold.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings to Mr F from the solar panels up until the 
date the property was sold, so Mr F and his estate pay no more than that.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr F’s estate has paid more than it should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse it accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr H by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost neutral from installation until the property was sold.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, the monthly repayments would reduce, meaning 
that Mr F would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as Mr F and his estate would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
If the loan has been settled, Creation should pay Mr F’s estate the difference between what 
was paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Creation’s records suggest some amount of the outstanding balance was written off after 
Mr F passed away. But those records are unclear as to whether the outstanding balance 
was totally written off or if the debt was sold on to a third party. So, Creation should check 
whether any outstanding balance of the loan was sold on to a third party. 
If it was then Creation should ensure that Mr F’s estate is not pursued for this – and that 
Mr F’s estate is reimbursed if it has made any payments to the third party (plus 8% interest 
for the time the estate is without that money). If it was not then Creation should confirm this – 
either in response to this provisional decision, or directly to Mr H after my final decision is 
issued.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
