 
 
DRN-5306459 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P complains about a credit agreement he took out with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
in relation to some home energy improvements. More specifically, that Creation did not 
accept his claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act.  
What happened 
The background and my provisional findings to this complaint were set out in my provisional 
decision of 30 January 2025. In that provisional decision I set out the following:  
In late 2014 Mr P entered into a Green Deal arrangement with a company I shall refer to as 
H. It was agreed that Mr P would receive solar panels, the total price for these was £8,000 
and this was to be funded through a Green Deal loan and a loan with Creation.  
Mr P is represented in his complaint but for ease I have referred to all submissions from Mr 
P and his representative as if made by Mr P. Mr P has said that he was told the Gren Deal 
arrangement would be fully self-funded and the new solar panels would therefore not 
actually cost him anything. Mr P believes the arrangement was misrepresented to him as it 
has actually cost him money and the arrangement has not been self-funding as he was told.  
Mr P believes he has valid claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act and is 
unhappy that Creation has not upheld his claims. Creation did not consider that Mr P had 
submitted his claims in time and it believes this complaint is outside the time limits permitted 
in the FCA’s DISP Rules.  
The case was considered by an investigator who, in summary, found that when considering 
s.75 and the Limitations Act, Mr P’s s.75 claim is likely to be time barred as it was made to 
late. This was because Mr P had submitted his claim more than 6 years from the date he 
had entered into the loan agreement and suffered a loss.  
The investigator set out how the limitation period in relation to a s.140A claim starts from 
when the relationship between the parties ended and as the relationship is ongoing, Mr P’s 
claim under s.140A has been made in time.  
The investigator found that Mr P’s complaint about misrepresentation can be considered 
under s.140A, through s.56 Consumer Credit Act as H was acting as Creation’s agent when 
negotiating the provisions of the loan and the sale of energy efficient measures.  
When considering the evidence presented in this case, which included the requirements of 
the ‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme, there had been a misrepresentation to Mr 
P. And that Mr P had relied on that misrepresentation when deciding to enter into the 
contract with H, and he had suffered a financial loss as a result of this. The investigator 
upheld Mr P’s complaint and set out what Creation should now do to put things right.  
Creation responded to say that it did not accept the investigator’s view of the complaint and 
as the complaint could not be resolved informally, it has now been referred to me for 
consideration as the last stage in our process.  
 
 
The Green Deal  
Before I set out my findings in this case I think it will be helpful to include some further details 
of the Green Deal scheme and in particular the ‘Golden Rule’.  
The energy efficient measures that Mr P entered into with H were through the government 
Green Deal initiative. It will be helpful therefore to set out some detail around this initiative 
and in particular the requirements of the ‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme.  
The Green Deal scheme was a government backed initiative intended to remove the upfront 
cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes. It did this by 
allowing Green Deal Providers (“Provider”) to enter finance agreements with consumers to 
pay for the measures, which were then repaid via the consumer’s electricity bill. The finance 
agreement was part of what was known as the Green Deal Plan (“Plan”).  
The Green Deal Provider Guidance issued by the Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(now part of the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy) set out the general 
structure of a Green Deal arrangement and the duties and responsibilities of various parties. 
Typically, this worked as follows:  
• If a consumer was interested in the Green Deal arrangement, an accredited Green Deal 
Assessor (“Assessor”) would visit their home and assess possible improvements the 
consumer could introduce to make the home more energy efficient. This assessment should 
have taken place at least 24 hours after any initial introduction to the Green Deal scheme, 
unless the consumer opted to waive their right to this in writing.  
• The Assessor produced an Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) which showed the 
energy use of a typical household of the relevant type. And a Green Deal Advice Report 
(“GDAR”), which included an Occupancy Assessment certificate (“OA”).  
• The OA formed part of the qualifying assessment. And would have set out the actual use of 
energy by the customer’s household at the time the assessment was carried out. It then 
detailed the potential measures which could improve energy efficiency for the property and 
what savings these measures would likely lead to.  
• Once a GDAR was registered in a centralised register, it could be taken to any Provider, or 
several, to obtain quotes for a Plan. The Provider should have ensured that the quote 
covered all payments that were to be recovered from the consumer for supply and 
installation of the improvements and the provision of credit.  
• It was the Provider who was ultimately responsible for designing the specification of works 
and the implementation of the Plan. This would include ensuring that the improvement 
measures were properly integrated into the overarching design of the package of 
improvements agreed upon.  
• The Provider would arrange for a Green Deal Installer (“Installer”) to install the measures 
under the plan. The Provider had to provide the Installer with a clear design and specification 
for all works to be carried out, including how the various products should be integrated into 
the overarching design for the package of improvements.  
• Once the installation was complete, the Green Deal payments were collected by electricity 
suppliers alongside the collection of energy payments. In doing so, the supplier would be 
acting on behalf of the Provider.  
• The Plan was a contract between the Provider and the consumer. It was a contract for 
 
 
energy efficiency improvements to be made to a property and for finance to pay for those 
improvements.  
• The Provider had to establish the Plan in line with requirements set out in the Energy Act 
2011, the Green Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) Regulations 
2012 (“the Framework”) and the Green Deal Code of Practice.  
The Golden Rule  
A significant key principle of the Green Deal scheme was that the amount of finance that 
could be provided for the improvement measures was limited to the estimated financial 
benefit to the customer that was likely to be made by those measures. This limitation was 
partly constructed through a comparison of the estimated saving from having the benefits 
with the repayments made, in the first year of the agreement.  
This principle is known as the “Golden Rule” and it forms part of the legislative provisions 
governing Plans. Regulation 30 of the Framework stated: “The first year instalments must 
not exceed the estimated first year savings…”  
As the Plan remained with the property, and so was not dependent on the usage of energy 
by the specific occupant at the time of the assessment, the total amount of finance that could 
be provided was based on the benefits that could be achieved for a typical property of the 
type the consumer had.  
Before entering into a Plan, the Provider had to estimate the overall savings which were 
likely to be made if the improvements were carried out. It was also the responsibility of the 
Provider to ensure that the “Golden Rule” was satisfied and that it was properly explained to 
the consumer.  
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why I’ve considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.  
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
S.140A Consumer Credit Act  
As the investigator has already set out in some detail, Mr P has complained about the 
misrepresentations made by H have created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A 
Consumer Credit Act. Mr P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between 
himself and Creation per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an 
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing 
unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit 
relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.  
 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.  
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’).  
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended.  
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on foot, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.  
In Mr P’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr P unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr P 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.  
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr P’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by H can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
 
 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming H to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair 
relationship those negotiations and arrangements by H for which Creation was responsible 
under s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr P.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.  
Mr P’s case  
Mr P says he was misled that the solar panels would effectively pay for themselves. I’ve 
taken account of what Mr P says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied. 
The cost of the solar panels was £8,000, This was to be funded by a green deal loan of 
£3,683 and a £4,317 loan with Creation. The £4,317 proceeds for the Creation loan appear 
to be used as a ‘deposit’ under the Gren Deal loan. And I assume this has been done to 
reduce the true appearance of the actual cost of the Green Deal loan.  
Mr P’s Green Deal credit agreement refers to the total estimated first year savings that he 
can expect to make on his energy bills based on the improvements being made for a typical 
property. It is noted that these are not guaranteed savings but Mr P’s estimated first year 
savings are noted as being £347.55.  
I think it’s important to note the Green Deal credit agreement also states, “Under the Green 
Deal the total estimated first year savings must be equal to, or greater than, your 
repayments in the first year of this agreement. This is called the “Golden Rule”.”  
H was responsible for ensuring that the whole package of instalments was taken into 
account when producing the Plan. The Green Deal Provider Guidance states:  
“The Green Deal Provider has responsibility for designing the specification of works to be 
carried out for the property in question. In practice this means working with the customer to 
select products and ensuring that they are properly integrated into the overarching design of 
the package of improvements agreed upon. This is important in development of the quote 
stage because costing will depend on, amongst other things, the price of the products and 
any requirements for integration. It is the Green Deal Provider’s responsibility to ensure that 
they take any necessary steps to satisfy themselves and their customers that the 
specification of works is comprehensive, ensures the proper integration of measures and 
meets all the necessary requirements.”  
And: 
“The Green Deal Provider should ensure that the quote issued to the customer covers all 
payments that are to be recovered from the Improver and bill payer for supply and 
installation of the improvements and the provision of credit.”  
So, I think it reasonable that H should have known that not all of the cost was being funded 
by the Plan. The annual repayments required under the Green Deal credit agreement are 
approximately £346.75, which is clearly less than the estimated savings of £347.55. 
Considering this in isolation, it would appear that the Golden Rule was met here, as the 
 
 
savings are likely to exceed the cost of the measures.  
But the cost of the energy efficient measures Mr P was acquiring far exceeded the amount 
being borrowed under the Green Deal loan and Mr P was therefore required to make 
repayments to Creation for the £4,317 loan, in addition to the repayments to the Green Deal 
loan. When including the required repayments for the Creation loan, the Golden Rule was 
not even close to be being met.  
I’m satisfied in the circumstances here, after considering the estimated savings from the 
solar panels and the cost of the Green Deal and Creation loans, the Plan did not meet the 
Golden Rule. I also think that by indicating to Mr P that the measures being financed through 
the Plan would result in an estimated overall saving, H provided Mr P with misleading 
information.  
Mr P has been consistent and clear about his intentions of taking out the energy efficient 
measures here and that it was because he was told they would be self-funding and therefore 
essentially cost him nothing. Had Mr P been made aware that the installation of the solar 
panels would come at a net cost to him, I don’t think he would have agreed to the Plan. I 
don’t think he would have agreed to have the solar panels installed or have entered the 
finance agreement with Creation.  
Mr P complains about the arrangement being misrepresented to him and a 
misrepresentation is generally considered to be a false statement of fact that has the result 
of inducing the other party to enter a contract. For the reasons set out here, I am satisfied 
that there was a false statement of fact around the actual cost of the measures as these 
were not self-funding as Mr P was led to believe. Mr P has said that it was that the measures 
would be self-funding and therefore not cost him anything that was behind his decision to 
enter into the agreement. This is to me entirely plausible, and I’m satisfied the false 
statement about the measures being self-funding is what induced Mr P into entering into the 
arrangement.  
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?  
The relationship between Mr P and Creation was built on the misrepresentation made by H, 
Creation’s agent and having considered the submissions in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr P would not have agreed to take out the solar panels had he been 
correctly informed about the true costs of the arrangements. Because of this shortfall 
between his costs and the actual benefits, each month Mr P has had to pay more than he 
expected to cover the difference between his energy efficient benefits and the cost of the 
loans. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.  
In my view, the original misrepresentations and the resulting collection of the loan 
repayments gave rise to the level of unfairness required to trigger a likely finding by a Court 
under s.140A. As the investigator has set out, the whole relationship is tainted by the untrue 
statements made by Creation’s agent.  
It follows that I think a court would likely find the relationship in question unfair. Given that, 
I’ve also concluded that Mr P has suffered a loss through entering the agreement. And I find 
that he’s been treated unfairly and unreasonably and as a result his complaint should be 
upheld.  
Putting things right  
As I am persuaded a court would find the relationship between Creation and Mr P to have 
 
 
been unfair I will now set out what I consider to be fair and reasonable redress.  
The aim of any award will be to try and put Mr P in the position he would have been in had 
an unfair relationship not been created and H had not misrepresented the benefits of the 
solar panel system. But to achieve this Creation would need to arrange for the removal of 
the solar panels. This is likely to be expensive to Creation, who would need to employ other 
parties to carry out the work. And this would create significant disruption Mr P. I’m also 
mindful of the solar panels working in line with the way they should and would likely be 
scrapped if now removed. It would therefore be more reasonable in my view for the solar 
panels to stay in place.  
Mr P agreed to purchase the solar panels on the basis that they would be self funding. So 
I’ve considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to take action now to 
ensure that Mr P does not lose out financially and the package of measures Mr P received 
don’t cost him more than the benefits he’s receiving and will continue to receive. I appreciate 
this is not our service’s normal approach where there has been a misrepresentation, but I’m 
satisfied this is a fair remedy in this instance when considering the alternatives.  
The cost of the solar panels was £8,000. The repayment period for the solar panels is 23 
years. The first year estimated savings was £347.55 and while I appreciate the savings may 
vary each year, for simplicity, assuming £347.55 was saved over the 23 year term of the 
Green Deal loan, this would likely equate to approximately £7,993 of savings. When 
considering what the Golden Rule sets out and what Mr P was led to believe, it would be 
reasonable in my view to limit the amount he should pay for the solar panels to an amount 
equivalent to the savings he would have likely received for the solar panels over the 23 year 
repayment term. I calculate that to be £7,993.  
The cost of the Green Deal loan is shown to be £7,856.50 over the full 23 year term of the 
loan. I have not included the ‘deposit’ payment of £4,317 which is shown on the Green Deal 
credit agreement as this is not in my view a deposit. It is the amount of the Creation loan 
which appears to have been used to give the illusion of a deposit.  
The amount of estimated savings Mr P should expect to receive when compared to the 
actual cost of the Green Deal loan is £137. It is in my view fair and reasonable that Mr P 
does not pay more than £7,993 across both the Green Deal loan and Creation loan. The 
£137 difference between the Green Deal loan cost and potential savings is a modest sum 
and would be a reasonable amount to pay Mr P for any distress and inconvenience caused 
by being misled into entering into this arrangement. The approximate cost of the Green Deal 
Loan is similar to the estimated savings Mr P might achieve and the Creation loan costs are 
simply an additional expense over and above this. 
The easiest, and fairest, remedy in this instance would now be for Creation to cancel the 
Creation credit agreement, write off any outstanding loan balance and remove any records 
of this loan from Mr P’s credit files.  
Creation should refund any instalments Mr P paid, with 8% simple interest. Interest should 
be calculated from the date of each payment to the date of the settlement. 
This will ensure Mr P broadly pays no more than the estimated savings he should expect to 
receive.   
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr P’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd and direct it to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above 
 
 
in the putting things right section. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision and said that they accepted my 
provisional findings.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reconsidered what I have set out above and in my provisional decision of 30 January 
2025, and in the absence of any further submissions from either party in this complaint, I 
have come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional decision. I also see 
no reason to depart from the redress proposal within the provisional decision.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr P’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to settle the complaint in accordance with what I 
have set out in the putting things right section of my provisional decision and above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2025.  
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
