DRN-1084239
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd decreased his credit limit without 
notifying him. 
What happened
Mr L holds a running-account credit agreement with Creation. Initially, his credit limit was 
£2,000. Creation decreased this to £600 in October 2018. Mr L says it didn't notify him at the 
time, thereby breaching the agreement. He says he only found out his limit had been 
reduced in April 2019, when he tried to use his Creation account to buy some items in a 
store. He’s now stopped making payments towards the agreement – and he thinks Creation 
should also refund the payments he made from October 2018 to April 2019. 
Creation maintains that it notified Mr L of the credit limit reduction at the time. It’s also 
pointed out that he was still able to make purchases on the account. So it doesn't think the 
limit reduction caused him to fall into arrears; it says this happened because he chose to 
stop making payments. It still considers him liable for his borrowing. 
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr L's complaint. They were satisfied that Creation was within 
its contractual rights to reduce the limit. They weren't sure whether he’d been told about the 
decrease in October 2018. But even if he hadn't been, they didn't think he’d significantly lost 
out – as he would never have been able to make purchases that put him over his £600 credit 
limit in April 2019. 
As Mr L mentioned that he was struggling financially, our investigator signposted him to 
some organisations which may be able to help. They also said he could talk to Creation if he 
needed support. But they didn't think it was fair to instruct Creation to waive or refund any 
payments, as Mr L had told us he’d stopped paying due to his limit being reduced. 
At Mr L's request, his case has been escalated to me for a final decision. He maintains that 
he wasn't told about the change – and has provided further details about his circumstances.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached – and for largely the same reasons.
As a starting point, I’ve checked the terms of this agreement. These say (my emphasis):
"When you enter into this agreement we will tell you what your credit limit is based on 
our assessment of your financial circumstances. We may change your limit from 
time to time depending on our assessment of your account and financial 
circumstances..."
I’m satisfied Creation was within its contractual rights to amend the credit limit as and when it 
did. Ultimately, it has legitimate commercial discretion over how much it's willing to lend over 
a rolling period. So I don't consider it appropriate to interfere with the reduction to Mr L's 
credit limit.
The terms do say that, when Creation amends the limit, it will "write to you and tell you what 
your new limit is". It’s explained that it uses a third party to send out a notification letter within 
48 hours of a limit change. It says it can't provide an original copy of Mr L's letter due to the 
time that's passed. But it's provided a template of this letter; confirmed that it held correct 
contact details for Mr L in October 2018; and checked that there were no known issues with 
these letters at that time. 
The evidence doesn't make it particularly clear whether notification was sent. So I’ve thought 
about what my decision would be if I found Mr L wasn't notified. In that scenario, the aim of 
any award or direction I made would be to put him back in the position he’d be in but for that 
error. He didn't incur any charges (etc.) due to being unaware of the limit. Instead, he reports 
that he was unable to make some purchases. But if Mr L knew about his reduced limit in 
October 2018, he still wouldn't have been able to spend beyond this limit in April 2019. And 
he would have always been required to repay Creation for the credit he used. So I’m not 
persuaded that his position would be materially different but for the potential error.  
I accept that, if Creation didn't notify Mr L in advance, finding out about the limit reduction in 
store would have been embarrassing. But I'm not persuaded that the level of impact he's 
reported warrants compensation. Particularly as I can see that he was still able to use his 
Creation account to buy items in the store that same day.
I'm very sorry to hear about Mr L's current financial situation. However, this complaint is 
about Creation reducing his credit limit. He's told us he stopped making payments because 
he found out about this reduction. But he still owes Creation for the money it’s lent him – 
which he’s benefited from. And I can’t see that he’s engaged with it about his circumstances 
or the state of his account. So I don’t consider directing Creation to waive or refund Mr L’s 
expected contractual payments to be a fair and reasonable remedy to his complaint.
Taking all of this into account, I agree with our investigator that—even if Creation didn't notify 
Mr L about the change to his limit—he hasn't significantly lost out. So whilst I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr L, I’m not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
