DRN-2171207
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to him the money that 
he paid, using a fixed sum loan agreement, for a laptop computer.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L and to Creation Consumer Finance 
on 11 February 2021. In my provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
“Mr L entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in 
August 2014 to pay for a laptop consumer. He complained to the manufacturer about 
an issue with the laptop in November 2014 but the actions that it recommended didn’t 
solve the issue and he reported it again in May 2015, July 2016 and February 2017. 
He complained to the retailer in February 2020 and paid £60 for its diagnostic report. 
A fault with the logic board was diagnosed and the retailer offered to pay Mr L 
£291.18 for the laptop if he returned it. That wasn’t acceptable to Mr L so he 
complained to Creation Consumer Finance and asked it to replace the laptop or to 
refund the money that he’d paid for it.
It said that Mr L had had use of the laptop for more than five years so it would be 
unreasonable to expect the retailer to provide a replacement or a full refund. It said 
that the laptop had been deemed beyond economical repair so the retailer had 
offered £291.18 as a partial refund – which it believed to be fair. Mr L wasn’t satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied that the laptop had a defect that was present at the 
point of sale so was of unsatisfactory quality. She said that Mr L had been able to 
continue to use the laptop but there had been some impact on his use. She 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should refund 25% of the price of the 
laptop (which she said was £499.75) to Mr L and for him to hand the laptop back – 
and that it should reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
Both Mr L and Creation Consumer Finance have asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Mr L says that he should receive a full refund but 
would accept about a 75% refund and he says that he shouldn’t have to return the 
laptop as he still uses it. Creation Consumer Finance says there’s nothing in the 
manufacturer’s reports that indicates why the issue has occurred or that it was 
present at the point of sale and it considers that the retailer’s offer is fair”.
And I set out my findings as follows:
“In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. To be able to uphold Mr L’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I 
must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
retailer and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to his claim under section 
75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr L’s claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
The retailer has accepted that there was a fault with the laptop and as Mr L 
complained to the manufacturer about the fault less than three months after he 
bought it, I consider it to be more likely than not that the fault was present when the 
laptop was supplied to him – and that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality at that time 
because of that fault.
But Mr L was able to use the laptop from August 2014 (when he bought it) until 
February 2020 (when it was returned to the retailer) – which is about five and a half 
years – and he’s continued to use it since he collected it back from the retailer. He’s 
described how his use of the laptop has been impacted by the fault but I’m not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to provide him with a replacement laptop or to refund him the money that he 
paid for his laptop.
The retailer offered to pay him £291.18 in March 2020 – but said that he would have 
to return the laptop – and our investigator recommended that Creation Consumer 
Finance should refund £499.75 to him and reimburse him for the cost of the 
diagnostic report but that he should return the laptop. Creation Consumer Finance 
and the retailer both say that the laptop is beyond economic repair so I’m not 
persuaded that it’s fair or reasonable for Mr L to be required to return the laptop to 
receive the compensation that’s been offered.
I consider that the compensation that was offered by the retailer was fair and 
reasonable given the time that Mr L has had the laptop and the use that he’s had 
from it. It’s for him to then decide whether to use the refund towards the cost of a new 
laptop, a repair of his laptop or for another purpose. I’m not persuaded that there’s 
enough evidence to show that a higher award of compensation would be justified in 
these circumstances.
Mr L paid £60 for the diagnostic report by the retailer and it was on the basis of that 
report that it offered the compensation to him – so I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to reimburse him for the cost of that 
report, with interest. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
£291.18 to Mr L and to pay him £60 to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic 
report, with interest, But I don’t consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to take any other action in response to Mr L’s complaint”.
So, subject to any further comments or evidence from Mr L or Creation Consumer Finance, 
my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. Creation 
Consumer Finance has accepted my provisional decision but Mr L says that it should pay for 
the laptop to be repaired. 
He has responded to my provisional decision in detail and clearly has strong feelings about 
the way that he’s been treated. He says, in summary and amongst other things, that:

the laptop doesn’t work and he hasn’t been able to use it since before he returned it 
to the retailer;

it hasn’t worked properly since he bought it and he only had limited use from it until it 
stopped working and he complained to the retailer;

the retailer refused to return the laptop to him;

the laptop is now with a repairer who has quoted about £1,000 to repair it;

he hasn’t been treated fairly by the manufacturer or the retailer both of which 
accepted that the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality;

he expects the laptop to last eight to ten years and the price of similar laptops of this 
age is much higher than the compensation that he was offered by the retailer;

the manufacturer, retailer and Creation Consumer Finance all have “deep pockets” 
but he’s the one who’s lost out and this is purely an “economic issue” for him; and

as a minimum he should receive the compensation that was recommended by our 
investigator and be able to keep his laptop.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’m not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I’ve 
carefully considered what Mr L has said in response to it and I sympathise with him for the 
issues that he’s had with the laptop and for the upset that he clearly feels.
Although there were issues with the laptop soon after it was supplied to Mr L, he didn’t 
complain to the retailer about those issues until about five and a half years after he’d bought 
it. He says that those issues prevented him from using the laptop as he’d intended – but he 
did have some use of laptop until it stopped working. 
Mr L has described the difficulties that he experienced with the retailer but his complaint is 
made against Creation Consumer Finance under section 75. It’s only liable to him under 
section 75 for a breach of contract by the retailer (or a misrepresentation by the retailer 
which induced him into buying the laptop) – it’s not liable under section 75 for any issues 
with the customer service that he received from the retailer.
When Mr L complained to the retailer he paid £60 for a diagnostic report and it said that the 
laptop had been deemed beyond economical repair so it offered him £291.18 as a partial 
refund. That was based on the age of the laptop and the retailer believed that to be fair – but 
it said that it would keep the laptop. 
Mr L clearly feels that the laptop is worth considerably more than £291.18 (though it will cost 
about £1,000 to repair) – but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that 
the retailer’s offer to pay him £291.18 was unfair or unreasonable. I do consider that it was 
unfair and unreasonable for the retailer to say that it would keep the laptop if Mr L was to 
receive the compensation that he’d been offered.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mr L 
the £291.18 that he’s been offered by the retailer. I also find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it pay him £60 to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report, with 
interest. But I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay 
him a higher amount of compensation than the retailer offered him – or to pay for the laptop 
to be repaired.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to take the actions described above and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr L’s complaint in part and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Pay to Mr L the £291.18 that he was offered by the retailer.
2.
Pay £60 to Mr L to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
3.
Pay interest on the amount at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
