DRN-3762155
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 25 March 2022, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation. He paid an advance payment of £5,000 and the agreement was for £38,995 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £601.79, and a final payment of £17,492 if 
Mr H wanted to keep the car. At the time of supply, the car was around one and a half years 
old and had done 14,570 miles.
On 13 April 2022, Mr H complained to both the dealership and Creation that the car had 
developed an ABS fault. The dealership couldn’t determine a fault, and the car was 
examined under the manufacturer’s warranty. Again, no fault could be found, and the car 
was returned to Mr H on 22 April 2022. 39 miles later the car broke down and had to be 
recovered. It was examined again under warranty, and an issue with the ABS was found and 
fixed. The car was returned to Mr H on 6 May 2022.
On 9 May 2022, the engine management light (EML) came on, and the warranty company 
reset nine fault codes. But the EML came on again after one mile. So, on 10 May 2022, Mr H 
asked to reject the car. The dealership refused but offered to buy the car back for around 
£5,000 less than Mr H paid for it around 10-weeks earlier. Mr H didn’t accept this offer and 
the car broke down again on 24 May 2022 due to another fault with the ABS.
Mr H had an independent report done on the car, and was told that, if it were to be repaired, 
there would be a substantial delay while waiting for parts. And he felt that he had no option 
but to sell the car, as he needed it to be able to get to work. On 31 May and 1 June 2022, 
the dealership’s solicitors wrote to Mr H to tell him they considered the issues with the car to 
be “merely trivial”, that his claim was “wholly unproven“, and that he had no right of rejection.
Mr H sold the car for £37,283.90, which was a loss of £6,711.10 on what he’d paid for it. He 
also needed to pay Creation £1,033 for the shortfall in the agreement, bringing his total loss 
to £7,744.10. And he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the evidence showed there was likely to be a fault with the car that was 
present when it was supplied to Mr H. And this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. 
She said that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), Creation were allowed one 
chance to repair the car, which they’d had. And whether or not each breakdown had been 
caused by the same underlying issue wasn’t relevant. What’s more, Mr H had only been able 
to do 1,300 miles in the car, while suffering multiple breakdowns, and he hadn’t had much 
use of the car since 13 April 2022. So, she also didn’t think the car was sufficiently durable. 
Because of this, the investigator said that, under circumstances like this, Mr H should usually 
be allowed to reject the car. However, as the car had already been sold, she thought that 
Creation should treat the agreement as it the car had been rejected. And they should refund 
all payments Mr H had made since 13 April 2022; reimburse him the £7,744.10 financial loss 
he’d incurred; and refund him £971.05 additional expenses he’d incurred relating to tax and 
insurance while the car was off the road, recovery costs, and inspection costs.
The investigator also said that Creation should pay statutory interest on the refunds; pay Mr 
H an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience he’d been caused; and remove any 
adverse credit, relating to this agreement, from Mr H’s credit file. Mr H agreed with the 
investigator, but Creation didn’t respond to her view. Because of this, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, Creation are responsible. What’s 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr H to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
It’s not disputed that Mr H had problems with the car shortly after it was supplied to him. I’ve 
seen an invoice for the repair that took place on 4 May 2022, which confirms that there were 
“multiple ABS related warnings in display” and there was a broken wire in the ABS module. 
The wiring fault was fixed under warranty. However, a breakdown report dated 24 May 2022 
confirmed that the mechanic “found loose wiring to abs module.”
I’ve also seen a copy of an independent report on the car, dated 16 June 2022. At this point 
the car had done 15,901 miles – 1,331 miles more than when it was supplied to Mr H. This 
said that the engineer has “checked wiring to ABS module and found connector had melted. 
Vehicle will require new engine bay harness and possibly ABS module.” Mr H was charged 
£192 for this report.
In their response to Mr H’s complaint, Creation have said they would need to inspect the car 
to “confirm if it is a second fault” and that “the dealer has a right to repair if it is a different 
fault.” However, section 24(5) of the CRA says:
A consumer who has the right to a price reduction and the final right to reject may 
exercise one (not both), and may only do so in one of these situations – 
a) after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not confirm to contract
And the explanatory notes for the CRA make it clear that “if the consumer’s goods continue 
to be substandard after the consumer  has … already undergone one repair or replacement 
of the goods by the trader … the consumer may … reject the goods and obtain a refund.” 
It's clear that the CRA only allows a single chance at repair, and not one chance to repair 
each fault. And this single chance of repair took place on 4 May 2022, when an ABS fault 
was fixed. It’s also clear that this repair failed because the car broke down again on 24 May 
2022. As it happens this was also with an ABS fault, but the CRA doesn’t require these faults 
to be linked. As such, I’m satisfied that Mr H has the right to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr H was in possession of the car from 25 March to 5 August 2022, when it was sold. In a 
situation like this, I’d expect Mr H to return the car to Creation, and for them to unwind the 
agreement. But this isn’t possible, as the car has been sold, and the agreement repaid in full. 
As such, while the car can no longer be rejected, I’d expect Creation to treat the agreement 
as if it had.
Where a car had been rejected, I’d expect a financial business to refund any deposit paid, as 
well as clearing the remaining amount on the agreement at no cost to the customer. So, for 
Creation to put Mr H back in the position he should’ve been, had rejection been accepted on 
10 May 2022 (when Mr H asked for this), I expect Creation to refund Mr H the difference 
between what he paid for the car and the sale price, plus the additional amount he was 
required to pay them to repay the agreement in full – a total of £7,744.10.
While I would expect Mr H to pay for the car while he had use of it, I also need to take into 
consideration the period when it was in his possession but undrivable due to the faults. Mr H 
said that he had no issues with the car for the first two weeks, that it was in for inspection 
and repair for around six weeks, and the car broke down completely on 24 May 2022. As I’ve 
not seen anything to show me that Mr H was provided with alternate transportation while the 
car was in for inspection/repair, I’m in agreement with the investigator that Mr H should only 
pay for the first two weeks of use, plus the few days use he had until 24 May 2022. As such, 
Creation should refund him any payments he made after 13 April 2022.
I’m also in agreement that Mr H should be refunded for the insurance and road tax payments 
he’d made while the car wasn’t in use, plus the cost of the recovery and inspection he paid 
for. And I’ve seen evidence that this comes to a total of £971.50.
Finally, Mr H has suffered a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience with what’s 
happened, given the multiple breakdowns, the multiple trips to garages, and the sheer 
number of times he’s needed to chase or liaise with multiple parties. And this has had an 
impact on his mental health, resulting in him having to take time off work and being 
prescribed medication. Given this, I’m also in agreement that Creation should pay Mr H an 
additional £500 compensation.
So, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

pay Mr H £7,744.10 to put him back in the position he would’ve been had they 
allowed the car to be rejected;

refund all the payments Mr H has made after 13 April 2022;

reimburse Mr H £971.50 for the road tax and insurance he paid while the car was off 
the road, for the cost of recovery, and for the cost of the inspection on the car;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above, calculated from the date Mr H made 
the payments to the date of the refund †;

remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr H’s credit file; 
and

pay Mr H an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience he’s suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality. 
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr H’s complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
