DRN-3111267
The complaint
Ms L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd chased and harassed her for money 
she doesn’t owe. She would like all communication from Creation to stop; compensation and 
an apology; and a letter of explanation to provide to other businesses that have reduced her 
credit limit.
What happened
Ms L says she bought a television and accessories in a store. She applied for a credit 
agreement with Creation to pay for the purchase, but then decided she would pay in cash 
and she asked for the agreement to be cancelled.
She says that money was wrongly taken from her account and that she was chased for 
payment of arrears. When she complained, Creation told her the agreement had been 
cancelled.
But, around three years later, she received letters from a debt collection agency and 
Creation says that she owes £682.11. She says she’s been very distressed by the contact 
she’s received and that her credit limits with other businesses have been reduced because 
of the adverse information recorded on her credit file about the Creation account.
Creation says Ms L’s purchase in October 2016 was paid for in full. But it says she made 
another purchase in store on 6 November 2016 for £332.99. This was a buy now pay later 
(“BNPL”) arrangement and needed to be paid for in full by 6 May 2017 if Ms L wanted to 
avoid interest. It says she’s made no payments.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms L didn’t agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought this complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
I find it’s clear from what Ms L has told us that she took out a credit agreement in 
store but, when she collected the item a short time later, she decided to pay for it in 
cash instead. And I can see from the statements provided by Creation that this is 
what happened. Ms L says she told the retailer she wanted to cancel the agreement. 
She’s been quite detailed in her recollection of the conversation and I’ve no reason to 
doubt what she says. Although she asked for the agreement to be torn up, the 
member of staff explained that it had to be sent to Creation with the cancellation 
request. It’s not clear whether the store passed the cancellation instructions to 
Creation. But I find that the agreement wasn’t cancelled when it should have been.
This meant Creation debited Ms L’s bank account when the first monthly payment 
became due. Ms L’s bank reclaimed the payment, but Creation had already reversed 
it. So the account went into arrears. When Ms L was contacted for payment she 
complained. Creation explained what had happened and apologised. In its letter 
dated 24 May 2017, it told her the agreement had been cancelled and closed.
Creation says the amount Ms L owes is from a purchase she made in store on 
6 November 2016. Creation says the goods were bought using a BNPL arrangement. 
When Ms L failed to make payment in full by the required date (6 May 2017), interest 
began to accrue, and it contacted Ms L to seek payment of the arrears.
This was confusing for Ms L – she says she never bought any items on 6 November 
2016 and she thought the arrears letters were all to do with the account which she 
thought had been cancelled. And I sympathise as I agree that this is all very unclear. 
What is clear is that – if she made the purchases on 6 November 2016 – she should 
have paid the amount due by 6 May 2017. No money was paid, so the account would 
have been in arrears on 27 May 2017 when Creation sent its letter confirming that 
the account had been cancelled and closed. I think it was reasonable for Ms L to 
conclude, following receipt of that letter, that she didn’t owe any money and that 
when she received further correspondence about arrears she reasonably assumed 
this was wrong.
Creation told us – more than once - that there was only ever one credit agreement. 
But in response to our recent request for information it suggested the letter it sent 
confirming the account was closed related to a fixed term account and not Ms L’s 
Your Plan account. So Creation now seems to be saying there were two credit 
agreements, although I’ve not seen evidence of this. In any event, this does not 
change my conclusion because I’ve set out above why I think the Your Plan account 
should have been cancelled when Ms L requested it in October 2016.
And I set out what I thought Creation needed to do to put things right. I said:
In the circumstances, I think Creation should write off the balance it says Ms L owes.
Ms L says her credit file has been impacted. And she’s provided evidence to show 
that her credit account with another business was put on hold because of updated 
information it had received from the credit reference agencies. Ms L has requested 
that Creation provides her with a letter of apology and explanation, and I think this is 
reasonable.
Creation should also remove the account from Ms L’s credit file.
I’ll now go on to consider whether it should pay her some compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused. I can see from what Ms L has told us that it 
has been very upsetting for her to cope with the communications from Creation and 
from the debt collection agency about her account and the money it said she owed. 
Ms L told Creation and us a little about her circumstances and vulnerabilities and I’ve 
taken this into account when thinking about compensation. Creation hasn’t made it 
easy for Ms L to understand what’s happened here – for example, it’s only recently 
provided us with information about what the amount it says Ms L owes relates to. 
And I think the contact from a debt collection agency was particularly distressing for 
her. I think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Ms L agreed with my provisional decision.
Creation said it wanted to clarify that Ms L only had one credit agreement.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has confirmed that Ms L only had one credit agreement. That being the case, 
I don’t find any reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1.
Write off the sum that it says Ms L owes and close her account.
2.
Remove the account from Ms L’s credit file.
3.
Write a letter of apology to Ms L. The letter should explain that her account should have 
been cancelled and closed when she requested it to be in October 2016 and when she 
had paid for the item she’d purchased in full.
4.
Pay Ms L £150 for the distress and inconvenience it’s caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
