DRN-2376650
The complaint
Mr D complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation’s) decision not to approve 
an application he made to them for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Creation have explained to Mr D that their main reason for rejecting his credit application 
was that he didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to 
share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be 
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
But I would not think it fair for Creation to reject Mr D’s application because of his age. So, 
I’ve thought about whether that was likely to have been the case and I don’t think it was.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and given that this was a 0% APR application, 
where profit would be marginal, I would expect their internal lending criteria to be more 
stringent than usual.
I can see they asked Mr D about his employment status, income and home ownership and I 
wouldn’t expect them necessarily to consider his savings. 
I understand that Mr D says he met the advertised criteria to apply for the loan but that 
doesn’t mean that the business would necessarily approve his application and I’m not 
persuaded there is evidence here that Creation rejected Mr D’s application because of his 
age. I think the questions they asked him were in line with what I would expect other 
applicants to be asked.
Mr D is concerned that the rejection of his application will make other lenders consider him a 
bad credit risk. Whilst it would be usual for the business to report his credit enquiry to the 
credit reference agencies, I don’t think that would identify him as a bad credit risk and I can 
see Mr D has provided information that suggests his credit score remains excellent.
Overall, I’m not persuaded Creation did anything wrong when rejecting Mr D’s credit 
application.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
