DRN-2859188
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd have harassed him and they have said
he owes them money when he doesn’t.
What happened
Mr H has an account with Creation. He used to make his payments by direct debit but when
he stopped paying by direct debit he started to experience issues with Creation.
Creation contacted Mr H to inform him he was in arrears but Mr H said he typically tried to
pay £100 a month when his contractual monthly payment was around £78 a month so he
shouldn’t be in arrears. Mr H says that Creation constantly rang him and sent him letters and
he felt harassed by Creation. He said that he contacted Creation on a number of occasions
and call handlers informed him that he was up to date with payments but he says he still
kept getting communication from Creation saying he owed them money.
Mr H complained to Creation but Creation did not uphold his complaint. They said that since
December 2019 Mr H’s payment due date was on the tenth of the month but they had
regularly received payments before the due date, which meant the payments have not been
applied as the contractual monthly payment, but instead as additional payments that are
taken from the outstanding balance. They also said the account had fallen into arrears and
the letters, calls and text messages Mr H received were correct and in-line with their
collections process. As a goodwill gesture, Creation cleared the arrears from his account
and explained to Mr H that he would need to ensure that he made the monthly payment on
or just after the due date on the tenth of the month which would ensure the contractual
monthly payment was satisfied.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. Our
investigator said that Mr H had been making payments before his due date. This meant that
Creation treated these payments as overpayments and not being paid towards the next
monthly payment due. As a result of this arrears started mounting on his account. He said
that although it may be distressing for Mr H to receive letters/texts/calls from Creation, that
these were made to inform Mr H that the arrears were building up. Our investigator noted
that Mr H has requested paying £1 a month to Creation as he may now be suffering from
financial difficulty.
Mr H sent our investigator further information after he had sent the view of his investigation
which included payments from his bank statements to show that he had been making his
payments. He also asked the investigator to request calls from Creation as he said agents
had told him previously that he wasn’t in arrears. Our investigator issued a final view of the
investigation considering all of the information available to him. He documented Mr H’s
payments in his statement months. Our investigator said this showed while Mr H did make
payments, they weren’t all made on time. This resulted in some months Mr H paid less than
the contractual monthly payment. 
Our investigator detailed the section of the credit agreement which showed that the payment 
needed to be punctual. He explained to Mr H that Creation did not have a copy of the 
telephone calls that he referred to. Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigator’s, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and I’ve considered and read everything
he’s said and sent us. But, in line with this service’s role as a quick and informal body I’ll be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding what’s fair and reasonable here.
I’ve considered what Mr H has said about him making overpayments on his outstanding
balance and that he wasn’t in arrears. Our investigator had documented in his final view
details of payments Mr H had made during statement periods. An example of this was that
Mr H made two payments on the due date of 10 January 2020 totalling £98.81 when his
contractual monthly payment was £77.94, but his next due date of 10 February 2020, Mr H
had paid £40 on 7 February 2020. So for the period between his February and March 2020
due dates he had paid a total of £40 when his contractual monthly payment was £77.94. So
because Mr H didn’t always pay his contractual monthly payment on the due dates or shortly
after, this is why payments weren’t allocated as he may have thought they should have
been.
Next I’ve looked at the agreement that Mr H signed to see what it says about repayments.
Section 3.1 of the agreement states the following:
“Each month on a date which we in our discretion will decide, we will send you a statement.
You agree that to the extent permissible by law we may send statements for you to view 
online
and for which an electronic notification shall be sent to you each month by e-mail to the
email address provided to us. Each statement will show:
• all of the transactions you have entered into;
• the repayment which is due that month for each transaction;
• any additional charges added to the Account;
• the total which you have to repay for that month; and
• the date on which repayment must be made.”
I’ve looked at Mr H’s statements and they are clear about how much the contractual monthly
payment is due, the total that he has to repay for that month and his arrears position if there
was one for the month. The statements are also clear regarding the due date. As Mr H often
did not pay on the due date this created the payments to be allocated sometimes as
overpayments when Mr H had already paid his contractual minimum payment in some
months. But when an overpayment is made, this reduces the overall outstanding balance,
but it doesn’t contribute to the following month’s contractual minimum payment and so I’m
not persuaded that Creation have made an error here as often the minimum contractual
monthly payment hadn’t been paid in the month it should have done. This created arrears on
Mr H’s account and is shown on his statements.
I’ve thought about what Mr H has said about how some call agents had told him that he
wasn’t in arrears. Creation doesn’t have a copy of all of the calls that they had with Mr H. So
while it would have been useful to listen to these calls I’m unable to do so. They have
provided three calls in which Mr H had with Creation. But all three call handers informed Mr
H that he was in arrears. I have also been able to look at the system notes from Creation
which include calls which Mr H had with them but the recordings aren’t available. The
system notes confirm a number of phone calls Mr H had with Creation where he was
informed why he was in arrears. As I’ve already mentioned, his statements also clearly show
he was in arrears and the payments that had been credited each month and shows the fees
– if applicable, which were set out in his credit agreement (if certain things happened) and
interest charged so I don’t think it’s unreasonable for Mr H to know why he was in arrears on
his account.
As Creation’s final response letter dated 1 July 2020 confirms to Mr H, they cleared the
arrears from his account and I think this is fair in the circumstances – where the arrears look
to have been correctly applied. So if Mr H spoke to Creation around this timeframe then he
wouldn’t have been in arrears. Creation also informed Mr H that he needed to pay his
contractual monthly payment on or just after the due date but as he didn’t pay at least his
contractual monthly payment moving forward then Creation were entitled to start their
collections process.
I understand that Mr H felt harassed due to the volume of letters which were sent out, phone
calls made and emails. Creation occasionally limited their contact to Mr H such as when he
raised his complaint, but then they lifted this to contact Mr H for further information – a
financial statement and medical documents, but equally they have to follow regulatory
requirements to send out information for accounts which are in arrears. That’s what they did
here and I don’t think they acted unfairly in doing so. Letters and calls like these will
sometimes be worrying to receive and read, but they have to be sent so the bank can tell a
customer what will happen, or has happened, to an account. I’ve noted from phone records
Mr H has sent us that he didn’t often answer the calls Creation made and that’s why I’m
persuaded they tried to keep ringing him as they were unable to speak with him. Mr H says
he ended up blocking Creation’s telephone number.
In summary, I’m satisfied that Mr H did not make at least his contractual monthly payment by
his due date and this led to arrears building on his account. While I can understand the
volume of communication could’ve been worrying for Mr H, I’m persuaded that they fairly
followed their collection’s process and attempted to contact Mr H to inform him of his arrears
position. So it follows I do not intend to ask Creation to do anything further.”
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Creation said they had nothing to add. Mr H responded and in summary he said 
the reason he only paid £40 in February 2020 is because Creation had credited £50 to his 
account. He also commented on most of the phone calls he had with Creation had gone 
missing.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at Mr H’s January and February 2020 statements again. Mr H’s January 
statement clearly shows he was in arrears. In addition, it says he needs to pay £77.94 by 10 
February 2020. But in looking at his February statement to see what was paid, it only 
showed that £40 was paid on 7 February. There is no mention of any £50 credit on the 
transactions for either one of these months. So as Mr H’s statement showed he needed to 
pay £77.94 (excluding arrears) by 10 February 2020 and he only paid £40 in this statement 
period, I’m satisfied that Creation have not made an error in the administration of his account 
here.
As I explained in my provisional decision Creation doesn’t have a copy of all of the calls that 
they had with Mr H. So while it would have been useful to listen to these calls I’m unable to 
do so. They have provided three calls in which Mr H had with Creation which I had listened 
too and I’ve read the system notes of other calls where they have been available. But I’ve 
not heard or read anything where Mr H has been told that he wasn’t in arrears on these 
calls.
In summary, Mr H’s response hasn’t changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr H will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman
