 
 
DRN-5007229 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
 
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr P throughout. 
 
What happened 
In January 2014 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “E”. Mr P’s loan amount was £6,995 
with £3.856.20 worth of interest. The total amount payable under the agreement was 
£10,851.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £90.42. 
 
The most recent update from Creation was in January 2023, where it confirmed that there 
was still a balance left to pay of around £1,114. Given the time that has passed since then 
it’s possible the loan has been repaid. Either party can confirm this in response to this 
provisional decision. 
 
In September 2021 Mr P sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He said E told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self- 
funding. He said E told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life 
expectancy and his energy bills would go down. 
 
Mr P said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was “…dismissing…” the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Mr P decided to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in 
January 2022. 
 
One of our investigators looked into things. Firstly, they considered that the 
Financial Ombudsman had jurisdiction to consider the complaint and they concluded s.140A 
created an unfair relationship that was still ongoing when the complaint was made and so 
the complaint was made within the relevant time limits. They then went on to consider the 
merits. 
 
The investigator concluded Mr P was likely told the system was self-funding over the course 
of the loan term, and so they thought E had misrepresented it. They thought a court would 
likely find the relationship between Mr P and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a 
loss through entering into the agreement. 
 
In order to put things right, they thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on 
known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mr P pays no 
 
 
more than that, and he keeps the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for 
the impact of Creation not investigating the s.140A claim. 
 
Mr P accepted the view, but Creation didn’t. In summary, Creation said: 
 
• 
The complaint was brought more than six years after the events complained about, 
so outside the time limits which apply to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman. 
• 
No complaint has been made about the way Creation handled Mr P’s section 75 CCA 
(“s.75”) claim, but even if Mr P had made such a claim than the Financial 
Ombudsman would lack jurisdiction to consider it. 
• 
Mr P’s allegations of an unfair relationship don’t relate to any events post-dating the 
sale of the system in January 2014. 
• 
The end of a credit relationship may be the starting point for limitation purposes in 
civil litigation, but it isn’t the starting point for the six-year period under DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a), where the unfair relationship itself would not constitute an event. It is 
the event(s) giving rise to an unfair relationship which are the “events complained of” 
for the purposes of that rule. 
• 
The investigator conflates the jurisdiction rules on the Financial Ombudsman’s time 
limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) and DISP 2.8.2R(1). It 
considers the approach allows any complainant to bring an otherwise time-barred 
claim in time by complaining about the decision not to uphold the complaint. 
• 
Without prejudice to its position on jurisdiction it considers the approach to redress 
should be in accordance with the Court decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
 
As things weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide and I issued a 
provisional decision explain the reasons why I was intending to uphold the complaint. Both 
parties were asked to provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, 
no later 5 September 2024.  
 
Mr P accepted the provisional findings, we didn’t hear from Creation. A copy of the 
provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final decision. 
 
What I said in my provisional decision: 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My findings on jurisdiction 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under 
Article 60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the 
debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the 
creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our 
compulsory jurisdiction. 
 
Creation argues that the event complained of when the matter was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service occurred as and when the supplier caused the alleged s.75 liability to 
arise in the first place. I disagree: the lender’s s.75 liability in damages doesn’t arise as a 
result of any act or omission of the lender in performing a regulated activity – it is simply a 
claim given by statute to the borrower against the lender. And it arises from the acts or 
omissions of a third party, the supplier. Only when and if that claim is presented by the 
 
 
borrower to the lender must the lender do anything about it, which is to honour its statutory 
liability by paying the claim if it is a valid one. Until then, the lender’s acts and/or omissions 
are simply to have lent money to the borrower at the borrower’s request, and that is not the 
matter complained about. 
 
So, when a borrower brings a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman alleging that they were 
due money under s.75 which the lender has refused to pay, the “event complained of” in 
such circumstances isn’t the supplier’s conduct; it is the lender’s refusal to honour its alleged 
statutory liability when the borrower made the claim. 
 
In this case, Creation rolled up its consideration of Mr P’s claim into a letter that both 
explained why it would not be paying the claim and treated Mr P as having brought a 
complaint which he was entitled to refer to the Financial Ombudsman. So, its refusal to 
accept and pay the s.75 claim was contained in a final response letter of 29 October 2021, in 
which it told Mr P he could refer his complaint to our service within 6 months. 
 
In those circumstances, because Creation’s letter dated 29 October 2021 rejected Mr P’s 
claim under s.75 (which Mr P says is valid) it constituted “the event complained of”. It also 
set out Creation’s response to any complaint that flowed from this and invited Mr P to refer 
that complaint to our service if he was dissatisfied with the outcome. Creation could have 
separated those stages, waited for Mr P to complain that the s.75 claim had not been 
accepted and honoured, and only then issued its final response letter. Instead, it followed the 
same practice that many other lenders adopt by allowing Mr P to refer the matter directly to 
the ombudsman service, by way of treating it as a complaint. 
 
Creation argues that Mr P didn’t complain to it about the manner in which it dealt with his 
s.75 claim, and that it has never responded to such a complaint. But that ignores the fact 
that it was Creation’s choice to roll the answer to the s.75 claim into a final response letter in 
the way that I’ve described. That was a reasonable and pragmatic way of proceeding, 
because the issues between the parties on this part of Mr P’s complaint were whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Creation to reject Mr P’s s.75 claim, as they remain to this day. 
 
Creation also refers to DISP 2.8.1R(1) which broadly provides a complaint can only be 
considered if the respondent has sent the complainant its final response (or summary 
resolution communication). However, Creation did send Mr P a final response letter on 
29 October 2021. After the complaint was referred by Mr P to the Financial Ombudsman in 
January 2022, we wrote to Creation providing details of the complaint as submitted to us 
including details of Mr P’s complaint about the s.75 claim. 
 
If Creation’s position had been that it denied it received any such complaint, it could have 
raised this with the Financial Ombudsman Service at the time, but it did not. Instead, it 
provided information concerning its position on the complaint. It was apparent from this 
correspondence that, in relation to s.75, Mr P’s complaint was that Creation had a liability to 
him which it was declining to pay. 
 
So, even if no final response had been issued in respect of the complaint about s.75, in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.1R(2) Creation has had well over eight weeks to respond to the 
complaint and the Financial Ombudsman is entitled to deal with it. 
 
There has been no conflation with the six-month time limit under DISP 2.8.2R(1) in this 
regard. That Creation refused to accept the s.75 claim within a final response letter does not 
give rise to any difficulties calculating when time begins to run under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a). 
I’ve also considered whether the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the 
Limitation Act 1980 (“the LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying 
when a complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do 
consider that the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr P’s complaint about 
its rejection of the s.75 claim. 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
 
 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction. 
 
Mr P can make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation under 
s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. This accords with the Court’s approach to assessing unfair 
relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship 
ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A about all matters it thinks relevant, 
including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. 
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of the trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise 
the date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by 
the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, whether it is 
still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship. 
 
In Mr P’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr P unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr P 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. 
I am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the Financial Ombudsman Service’s 
jurisdiction to consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr P’s complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. 
 
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P. 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr P says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr P says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation with which I’ve 
been supplied. 
 
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr P to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, and Mr P has provided 
a significant amount of information, but I can’t be sure what items were discussed with Mr P 
at the point of sale or what was provided to Mr P before the system was installed. 
 
One of the documents provided, suggests that Mr P’s electricity generation would be around 
3,190 kWh per year and based on those figures Mr P would be expected to have repaid the 
facility by year 8 of the agreement. So, I do think, given what the paperwork says that Mr P 
was likely told the system was self-funding, and he would be in effect making money by year 
8 of the agreement. 
 
Mr P has said he only agreed to the purchase because E told him the system would pay for 
itself. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mr P 
would have agreed to pay for the system if his monthly outgoings would increase. On 
balance I find Mr P’s account to be plausible and convincing. 
 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings (through 
saved electricity but also through selling back to the grid) of around £1,085 per year. This 
has been calculated on the cost of the agreement that Mr P paid, and so for the system to be 
cost neutral Mr P would need to see combined savings of more than that. 
 
I’ve not seen anything to suggest he’s achieved anywhere near this benefit. I therefore find 
the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t true. 
I think E’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr P’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think E’s 
representative would have known that Mr P’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him as well as what 
 
 
is present in the paperwork that I’ve mentioned above. 
 
Considering Mr P’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely E gave Mr P a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr P’s account of what he was told by E credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen 
this purchase appealing had E not given the reassurances he said he received. 
 
In addition, I’ve been able to view what E’s website was showing in January 2014, so around 
the time of Mr P’s agreement, seems to support what Mr P has said and the documents 
given to him, which said the system would be self-funding. 
 
There is a section on E’s website called “Solar Panels that pay for themselves” and it’s clear 
from the information under this heading that these panels were being marketed as an 
“…investment…”. The website goes on to say; 
 
The introduction of the Government backed ‘Feed in Tariff’ gives you a whole new 
kind of investment, an investment that is 100% green, tax free, guaranteed for 20 
years, index linked to the rate of inflation… take a look at what a ‘paid for’ solar panel 
system can provide you 
 
The website further reinforces that Mr P would generate income and profits over a 20 year 
period: 
 
work out what you would generate and what income/profit you will receive over a 20 
year period. 
 
• Free Electricity during the day 
• Tax Free income from the Government for each unit of energy you produce 
(even if you use it!) 
• Tax Free income from your electricity provider for every unit of electricity 
you feed back into the grid 
 
I think it follows that the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, how using 
finance Mr P could pay for the products being offered by E would not only save him money 
but also generate a profit for him. Which has led me to conclude I think these benefits 
would’ve likely formed a central part of E’s conversation. 
 
So, I find what Mr P has explained happened to be believable, I think E’s website supports 
his testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be 
a key reason to purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from 
the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation. 
 
I think Mr P would have looked to E’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr P’s testimony that he was told by 
E’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr P expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. 
 
I am therefore intending to conclude that Mr P’s complaint should be upheld. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this, the relationship between Mr P 
 
 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr P’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected because of 
E’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this doesn’t 
persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. 
 
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even 
if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation 
should be based on Mr P’s expectation of what he would receive. I consider Mr P has lost 
out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to the extent that his 
loan repayments to it exceed the benefits from the solar panels. On that basis, I believe 
my determination results in fair compensation for Mr P. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service’s 
scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr P received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr P 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr P some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party has provided any further comments or submissions, I see no reason to 
depart from the findings I reached in the provision decision.  So, I’ve reached the same 
 
 
conclusions I reached before, as detailed in the above provisional decision and I’ve set out 
below what Creation needs to do in order to put things right.   
 
Putting things right 
For the reasons I have explained I’m upholding Mr P’s complaint and direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr P has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the end of the loan term – calculation A 
• 
Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – calculation B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – calculation C 
• 
Reimburse the C sum to Mr P 
• 
Pay Mr P an additional £100 compensation. 
 
*Where Mr P has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained above and in the provisional decision, I’m upholding Mr P’s 
complaint. 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right for Mr P as directed above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2024. 
  
 
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman 
 
