DRN-3102546
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly sought monthly payments of 
£36.62 for a mobile phone, instead of the advertised payments of £24.16. She complains too 
that Creation has harassed her for payment and has not handled her concerns fairly.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr K bought a mobile phone from a retailer, C. She says that a finance 
deal was advertised by C at the time. That advertisement said that there would be an initial 
interest-free term of six months, after which monthly payments would be £24.16.
Mrs K agreed to enter into a credit agreement to pay for the phone, and to take advantage of 
the six-month interest-free period – that is, payments would be taken by direct debit from 
June 2020. However, when payments started, Creation took £36.62 each month. Mrs K said 
this was not what had been agreed and stopped the direct debit payments. Creation pursued 
her for the debt, she says unfairly. 
Creation said that the credit agreement which Mrs K had signed set out that the monthly 
payments would be £36.62. It acknowledged that it had not dealt with Mrs K’s 
correspondence as it should have done but said that the payments it sought were correct 
and that it was entitled to add charges when the monthly payments weren’t made. 
Mrs K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
agreed with Creation, however, that the loan agreement said that the monthly payments 
would be £36.62. Whilst he noted Mrs K’s comments about Creation’s handling of her 
complaint, he explained that complaint-handling, of itself, is not a matter this service can 
investigate.
Mrs K did not accept the investigator’s conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.         
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to pay for the phone, Mrs K took out a credit agreement with Creation. The 
agreement recorded that it was a running account credit agreement. That meant that Mrs K 
could borrow more money, up to the credit limit of £5,000, if she wanted to – the agreement 
was not limited to financing the purchase of the phone.
The agreement included a summary of the credit provided in respect of the phone. That 
summary included the following information:

The phone had a cash price of £629, and this was the amount of credit provided.

The buy now pay later period was six months, ending on 26 May 2020.

Mrs K would make 24 monthly payments, the last one in May 2022.

The monthly payment was £36.62. 
The agreement itself said that a charge of £30 would apply each time a direct debit was 
cancelled or a monthly payment was not made. 
Mrs K signed the agreement electronically on 26 November 2019. 
In my view the credit agreement set out clearly what Mrs K had agreed with Creation. 
Specifically, it said that the monthly payments would be £36.62. I would be very reluctant to 
conclude that, contrary what was in writing and signed by the parties, something different 
was agreed. 
I accept that Mrs K may have seen an advertisement with a different monthly payment. She 
has – perhaps understandably – not been able to provide a copy. It may be that the lower 
payment related to a different repayment period or a different interest-free period. But, 
whatever the explanation, it did not reflect what Mrs K agreed with Creation. I am satisfied 
that Creation was within its rights to seek payments of £36.62 a month.
I also think it was within its rights to add charges in line with the credit agreement when Mrs 
K cancelled the direct debit instruction. Its actions in seeking payment were, in my view, 
reasonable and proportionate and did not constitute harassment.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mrs K’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
