DRN-4468051
The complaint
Ms F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim for compensation 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) in relation to a  boiler 
replacement.
What happened
On 11 March 2022 Ms F entered into a regulated fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to 
finance the supply and installation by a third party (“the supplier”) of a new boiler in her 
home, and a new thermostat. The boiler was subsequently installed. Since Ms F immediately 
reported that she was dissatisfied with the installation, she did not sign a satisfaction note 
and so the funds were never released by Creation to the supplier. The agreement was 
eventually cancelled in March 2023. Creation has argued that this means that section 75 
does not apply to her loan agreement.
Ms F’s old boiler is in her attic, and it is 16 years old. As she is unwell, it is no longer 
expedient for her to go to the attic, and so she wanted the new boiler to be installed in her 
garage, and the old one to be removed. The old boiler has a flue which goes through the 
roof, and removing the flue would require new tiles to cover the hole where it used to be. 
However, Ms F says that when the workmen arrived, they were unaware that the old boiler 
was in the attic, and no arrangements had been made for its removal, or to tile the roof. This 
was despite the fact that the supplier had charged her extra to remove the old boiler and had 
amended her quote accordingly.
After the installation, Ms F complained about the old boiler not being removed from the attic. 
She said this was taking up room, and that would be a problem whenever the house was 
sold. She also complained about the following matters:

The new thermostat didn’t work, which meant that there was no heating.

It had not been possible to remove the old hot water tank until after new pipes had 
been installed in the garage; this had resulted in hot water pipes being installed about 
two feet away from the wall, where they took up space and were at risk of people 
bumping into them and burning themselves. She provided photos of this.

Flux had not been removed from the pipes; this will cause corrosion over time if not 
removed, which will result in leaks.

The underfloor heating had not been drained and cleaned, because the workmen 
had not been told that she had underfloor heating, even though she had told the 
supplier about it at the survey. The supplier denies being told about it prior to the 
installation.
Later on, Ms F complained that she had to keep topping up the new boiler with water. She 
had not originally realised that was a fault until she spoke to people who told her it was not 
normal. As time went by, she had to top it up more frequently, until she was doing this three 
times a day. As a result of this, she contacted her insurer, who sent its engineer round to 
inspect the heating system and prepare a report in December 2022 (“the insurer’s report”). 
(This report has since been shared with Creation.) The engineer isolated the underfloor 
heating, in order to reduce the water pressure loss and improve the heating upstairs. So 
Ms F complains that the new boiler is not fit for purpose, because it cannot provide enough 
heat to both the underfloor heating and to the radiators upstairs, only to one or the other.
Ms F asked first the supplier, then Creation to pay for the cost of resolving these problems. 
She obtained quotes from two other firms for about £2,700 and £2,940.
At first, Creation did not question its potential liability under section 75. It asked the supplier 
about Ms F’s complaint points. In response, the supplier told Creation the following:

The boiler had been installed to a good standard.

The boiler manufacturer had inspected the boiler twice, and had found nothing wrong 
with it.

Three different electricians had inspected the thermostat and found it to be in working 
order.

The underfloor heating is the most likely cause of Ms F’s problems, as it has a leak. 
The supplier had not installed the underfloor heating, nor carried out any work on it, 
nor been told about its existence at or ahead of the installation.
Relying on what it had been told, Creation declined Ms F’s claim under section 75.
The matter was next considered by one of our investigators. She upheld this complaint. She 
did not accept the supplier’s claim that it had not been told about the underfloor heating, 
because it was not plausible that this would not have been mentioned or picked up during 
the survey, or when the hot water tank which supplied the underfloor heating was removed 
from the garage. The insurer had found that the new boiler was insufficient to heat the whole 
house. The investigator didn’t think that Ms F would have accepted a replacement boiler 
which would not be able to provide heating to the same extent as the old one.
The investigator said no evidence had been provided to support the supplier’s claims, 
despite her asking to see some. In particular, there was no evidence to corroborate that the 
manufacturer had inspected the boiler and found no issues with the installation. There was 
no evidence to show that three electricians had visited the property and inspected the 
thermostat. She pointed out that as the problems had been reported within six months of the 
installation, the burden of proof fell on the supplier (and therefore on Creation). She said that 
Creation appeared to have just taken the supplier at its word, but she thought that the 
supplier was not credible.
The investigator concluded that the necessary remedial work should be carried out by a third 
party, at Creation’s expense (by the provider of the cheaper of the two quotes Ms F had 
obtained). Creation should pay Ms F £500 for her distress and inconvenience. The loan 
agreement should be reinstated on the same terms as originally agreed (twelve monthly 
payments at 0% interest). And in case any negative information about the loan had been 
reported to the credit reference agencies, Creation should arrange to remove this from Ms 
F’s credit file.
Following that opinion, Creation argued that section 75 did not apply to the loan agreement, 
because in the end no money had been paid to the supplier, and then the agreement had 
been cancelled. Section 75 only applies “to a transaction financed by the agreement.” But 
the investigator did not accept that argument, because the agreement (according to its own 
terms) had taken effect when the goods were delivered, regardless of whether the funds 
were released to the supplier or not. So she found that the transaction had been financed by 
Creation’s loan.
Because no agreement could be reached, this case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation’s liability under section 75
I’m satisfied that Ms F’s purchase of the boiler qualifies as a transaction financed by 
Creation’s loan agreement, even though the funds were never released. That is because 
paragraph 5 of the agreement’s terms and conditions says:
“This agreement shall be dated on and become effective and binding on the 
parties from the date of our signature.”
That date is 11 March 2022, which was prior to the installation.
Creation’s liability under section 75 is for any breach of contract (or misrepresentation) by 
the supplier. That liability was therefore incurred, and a cause of action accrued, no later 
than the date on which the replacement boiler was installed (and, if later, by which the old 
boiler should have been removed but was instead left where it was). The funds were not to 
be released to the supplier until after the contracted works had been carried out, by which 
time Ms F already had a claim against the supplier, and a like claim against Creation. So 
whatever happened (or didn’t happen) after that cannot exclude Creation’s liability under 
section 75.
It is not in dispute that Ms F asked for her boiler to be moved from the attic to the garage. 
I have seen an email which the supplier sent to Creation in which it says it agreed to do that 
on 11 March, charged Ms F extra for it, and amended its quote accordingly. The extra 
charge was not added to the loan but was paid separately, so I have thought about whether 
this constitutes a separate transaction for which Creation would not be liable under section 
75. However, as this work was so intrinsically linked to the original contract to replace her 
boiler, I think it was a collateral contract to vary the works originally agreed, rather than an 
entirely separate contract for entirely separate work, and I think the extra charge was really a 
price increase. So I think this variation was still part of a transaction which was part-financed 
by Creation, and that Creation is liable for any breach of contract arising out of it.
Was there a contractual term to remove the old boiler?
The email I mentioned in the last paragraph does not quite go as far as to say that the old 
boiler was supposed to be removed from Ms F’s property. But I think that is so strongly 
implied by the term “Boiler Replacement,” which is the title of the quote, that if the supplier 
really never intended to remove the old boiler then it would have made this clear in an 
express term, rather than leaving it to be implied from silence. I think that any consumer 
would understand a boiler replacement to include taking the old boiler away and making 
good the old site. So on the balance of probabilities, I think it was a term of the contract that 
the old boiler would be removed, and that this wasn’t done only because the workmen hadn’t 
realised that this would involve making good the roof and had come unprepared.
Breach of contract
For the reasons given above, I am satisfied that the failure to remove the old boiler from the 
attic was a breach of contract by the supplier, and that Creation is liable for that.
I turn now to the new boiler and the related issues.
I have had regard to section 19(14) and (15) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which say 
that goods which fail to conform to the contract at any time within six months after they were 
delivered must be taken to have not conformed to it on the day of delivery, unless it is 
proved that they did conform. This rule also applies to the installation of the goods by virtue 
of section 15.
I’m sure that if the manufacturer had carried out two visits to the property to inspect the 
boiler, and if an electrician or three electricians had carried out three visits to inspect the 
thermostat, then there would be written records of these five visits. No such evidence has 
been supplied, despite the investigator asking for it, so on the balance of probabilities I think 
this is because no such evidence exists, because the visits did not happen. That undermines 
the supplier’s credibility.
The only evidence I have seen of anyone visiting the property and inspecting anything is the 
insurer’s report. That report describes how the engineer looked for a leak in the underfloor 
heating, using thermal imaging and moisture meter testing. He determined that there was no 
leak. That contradicts the supplier’s assertion that there was a leak; again the supplier has 
provided no evidence to show that there was such a leak. I accept the insurer’s evidence.
That report was shared with Creation two weeks before it provided its final response, but it 
apparently overlooked it, because its final response said that the insurer had not yet 
attended the property.
Since there is no leak in the underfloor heating, which I accept was working fine before the 
boiler replacement, I am satisfied that the installation of the new boiler is the most likely 
cause of the problems Ms F has been experiencing. I do not think that was carried out with 
reasonable skill and care, and 
I have seen photos of the pipes in the garage. They do stick out from the walls. They also 
have green patches on them. So I accept Ms F’s evidence about these issues, and I find that 
they were not installed with reasonable skill and care.
Overall I find that Ms F’s evidence is more credible than the supplier’s, and so I uphold her 
complaint.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator’s proposed redress.
The cheaper of the two quotes submitted by Ms F is for a total of £2,701.68. But rather than 
order Creation to pay Ms F that amount, I will order it to arrange for the remedial work 
described in the quote to be carried out at no cost to her. That is in case prices have gone 
up since the quote was prepared six months ago, and just in case the work takes longer than 
envisaged, resulting in higher labour costs.
In the paragraph below, “the remedial work” means the work identified in the quote dated 18 
May 2023 (a copy of which is enclosed with this decision for the avoidance of doubt).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Arrange for the remedial work to be carried out at no cost to Ms F;

Pay Ms F £500 for her inconvenience;

Reinstate the loan agreement on the same terms as before (i.e. 0% APR, twelve 
monthly payments of £173.91);

If any negative information about the original loan agreement has been reported to 
Ms F’s credit file, arrange to have that information removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
