DRN-4873878
The complaint
Miss F complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”)’s response to a claim 
she made under Section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act (“CCA”), in relation to a 
solar panel system (“the system”). She also complains that her relationship with Creation 
was unfair on her, taking into account Section 140A (“s.140”) of the CCA, and that Creation 
should not have lent to her because the lending was unaffordable or its decision to lend 
irresponsible.
What happened
In May 2014, Miss F purchased the system from a supplier, which I will call “G”. She paid for 
this using a fixed sum loan from Creation, which was repayable over ten years. In 
December 2014, Miss F entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (“IVA”) with her 
creditors, including Creation.  
In August 2020, Miss F contacted Creation through a Claims Management Company 
(“CMC”). She claimed that G had misrepresented the system to her, as she was told it would 
not cost her anything – because the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) payments would cover the monthly 
loan repayments. Miss F later told us that her understanding was that she was signing for a 
grant to pay for the system, rather than a loan. The CMC also alleged that Miss F’s 
relationship with Creation was unfair on her, because of what she was told by G, and also 
because the loan was unaffordable – implying that its lending decision was irresponsible. 
Creation responded to say that Miss F had made her claim too late, since the Limitation Act 
meant she only had six years to make the claim from the date the loan started. 
Unhappy with this, Miss F asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look at what had 
happened. Creation did not consent to our involvement, as it said the complaint was made 
too late under our rules. 
Our investigator thought we could look at the complaint and that it should be upheld. The 
Investigator said a Court would likely find that Miss F’s relationship with Creation was unfair 
on her. And to put things right, Creation should ensure that Miss F paid no more for the 
system than the benefits she would receive from it over the original loan term, plus pay her 
an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Creation not fully 
responding to her claim and complaint. 
Creation asked for more time to respond as it was seeking outside counsel on the matter of 
time limits and our jurisdiction. But it has not provided any further response for well over a 
year. So, I’ve been asked to make a decision on the complaint, which is the final stage in our 
process.  
The CMC objected to the Investigator’s method of redress. It said that the benefits of the 
system would far outweigh what she had paid back to Creation following the IVA. So, Miss F 
would only get £100 compensation – which the CMC did not feel fairly recognised the 
distress and inconvenience she’d experienced. The CMC said it was Creation’s fault that 
Miss F entered an IVA, which happened shortly after the loan was agreed.
I was asked to make a decision on the complaint, which is the final stage in our process. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining that I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Creation responded to acknowledge receipt of this and to say it agreed. Neither Miss F, nor 
the CMC, responded by the given deadline. So, there is nothing further for me to consider 
and my final decision is in line with my provisional one. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided that this complaint is within our jurisdiction. But I am not telling Creation to take 
any further action as a result of this complaint. I explain my reasons below, which match 
what I said in my provisional decision.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Miss F’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
However, we do not have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about Creation’s lending 
decision – and whether the lending was unaffordable or irresponsible. My reasons are set 
out below.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Miss F’s s.75 claim 
on 10 March 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Miss F brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 12 November 2020. 
So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continued, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss F. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 12 November 2020 – the debt being 
written off in October 2022 following completion of the IVA. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unaffordable and/or irresponsible lending complaint
This complaint has been made too late under the rules I must apply. A consumer must make 
their complaint within six years from the event complained about – in this case the lending 
decision made in May 2014. Or, if it provides more time, three years from when the 
consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of cause for 
complaint. 
The complaint was made in the CMC’s letter of claim dated 3 August 2020 and referred to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service on 12 November 2020. Both are more than six years 
after the event complained about. 
Miss F entered the IVA on 29 December 2014 – which she says was caused by the loan. So, 
at that stage she ought reasonably to have known she had cause to complain about 
Creation’s lending decision. This means the six-year time limit is not extended beyond May 
2020. 
So, the complaint was made too late, and I do not have the power to consider whether the 
lending was unaffordable or irresponsible, unless the delay in referring the complaint was 
due to exceptional circumstances. Miss F has not suggested there was, nor has she 
provided any evidence of, any exceptional circumstances that caused the delay. 
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and cause of action arose when an agreement 
was entered into on 15 May 2014. Miss F brought her s.75 claim to Creation on 3 August 
2020. That is more than six years after she entered into the agreement with it. Given this, I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not 
uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
Following our usual approach to this type of complaint, of which Creation is fully aware from 
previous decisions, I think it is likely that G misled Miss F in relation to the benefits of the 
system and how this compared to what she was agreeing to pay. This is because:

There is no evidence from the time of sale of Miss F being provided a written 
estimate of the benefits of the system, so she had to rely on what G told her.

G’s website at the time said that for consumers taking a loan, “the profit from the 
electricity should cover the repayment amounts – and leave you with money to 
spare”. This suggests that G may have sold solar panels as being self-funding on a 
monthly basis, such that it wouldn’t cost a consumer anything. 

The Renewable Energy Consumer Code found that G was in breach of section 5.2 
and 5.3 of the code around the time of sale, which relate to behaviour of sales 
representatives, false or misleading information, pressure selling and estimates of 
performance, amongst other things. 

Miss F recalls being told the system was paid for using a grant, rather than a loan, so 
that she would not pay anything, and she would benefit from free electricity. She was 
attracted to this because she was struggling financially at that time and the 
salesperson was so convincing. Although she signed the credit agreement, her 
understanding was that this was a grant, not a loan. 

Creation hasn’t provided any evidence to dispute Miss F’s recollection of events. 
In light of this, I think it is likely that a Court would conclude that Miss F’s relationship with 
Creation was unfair on her. 
Normally in this situation I would recommend that Creation ensure that Miss F pays no more 
for the system than the benefits she received over the ten-year term of the loan. But in this 
case that would result in no redress being paid to her. 
The evidence provided shows that Miss F borrowed £7,995.00 under the credit agreement. 
By the time she entered the IVA she still owed £7,882.88. By the end of the IVA, she had 
paid a further £437.28 to Creation. Creation wrote off the remaining debt. I calculate that 
Miss F repaid £550.00 of what she borrowed. The total she paid may have been slightly 
more due to interest accruing prior to the start of the IVA. But I’m satisfied that what she paid 
for the system is far less than the benefits it will have provided her over ten years. 
I see no justification for departing from our usual approach to redress. The main alternative 
would be to unwind the credit agreement. But this would put Creation to disproportionate 
expense in removing the system. And Miss F, aside from the disruption this would cause, 
would overall be worse off. This is because she would no longer benefit from the system, 
which is likely to continue to generate income and savings for a considerable amount of 
time. 
Looking forward, the benefits of keeping the system (£100s per year for ten to fifteen years) 
would far exceed any refund received in the short term (around £1,000 including interest). 
That does not seem to me like a fair and reasonable outcome for either party – particularly 
Miss F. 
As such, I am not directing Creation to refund any payments Miss F made towards the loan. 
This is because I do not think that she has suffered a loss as a result of what happened. 
I’ve thought about whether Creation should pay some compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by it not fully responding to the claim and complaint. But I’ve concluded that it 
should not. 
I’m mindful that Miss F is represented by a CMC, which has dealt with this matter on her 
behalf. So, I don’t think pursuing the matter further would’ve caused her significant 
inconvenience. 
I also think that if Creation had responded to the claim in full, it is unlikely that this would’ve 
resolved the complaint. Had Creation followed our approach to these cases it would not 
have offered any redress to Miss F (as explained above). The complaint would still have 
been referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. And I don’t think that outcome would’ve 
caused any less distress or inconvenience to Miss F than Creation’s actual response did. 
So, I do not think any compensation is warranted.
I do not think I can reasonably say that Creation should compensate Miss F for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by having to enter an IVA – which the CMC has alluded to. The 
IVA included debts in excess of £40,000, owed to a large number of creditors (not all of 
which were financial businesses). And given how little was repaid to creditors as a result of 
the IVA, it seems likely that an IVA would have been necessary anyway – regardless of 
whether she had purchased the system and taken the Creation loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2024.
 
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
