DRN-3027398
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty sofa.
What happened
In 2020 Mr S purchased a sofa, financed by a fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Creation. The sofa was delivered in June of that year, and in September Mr S noticed that 
one of the cushions had softened in the middle. He reported this to Creation as a fault, and 
so Creation arranged an inspection by the retailer. The inspection was done, and this found 
no manufacturing fault, only the natural settlement of the cushion interior. Consequently, 
Creation did not uphold Mr S’s claim.
Mr S then brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. He 
accepted the findings in the report, and so he was unable to recommend that Creation take 
any further action. He said that he would reconsider the case if Mr S obtained his own expert 
report.
Mr S did not accept that opinion. He asked for another report to be done. The investigator 
reminded Mr S that he would have to obtain this himself, and referred this case for an 
ombudsman’s decision. Mr S has not replied since then, and the deadline to reply expired 
two weeks ago.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Credit Act, Creation is jointly and severally liable for any manufacturing 
defect in the sofa when it was delivered. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, any fault 
which is detected within six months must be presumed to have been present or developing 
at the time of delivery, unless the contrary is proved. But the problem which faces Mr S here 
is that the inspection found no fault at all, just normal wear and tear.
I have noted that the report is not an independent report: the inspection was conducted by 
the retailer, which would be liable to refund Creation for any sum it had to pay out under 
section 75. Nevertheless, it is the only expert evidence available, and so I think it is still fair 
and reasonable for me to accept what it says. 
Based on the report, I am unable to agree with Mr S that the sofa has a fault.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
