DRN-3157283
The complaint
Mr B complains about a credit agreement he had with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd which 
was mis-sold to him by a third party.
What happened
Mr B says that in November 2019 he went to a third party retailer for the Black Friday sale 
(although I have noted that in that year Black Friday fell on 29 November, but Mr B’s credit 
agreement is dated 28 November, the day before, and his account with Creation was 
opened on the 28th). He bought a television, a sound bar and a fridge. He had intended to 
pay for these immediately, but the salesman persuaded him to buy them on credit and pay 
for them after Christmas, to ensure that he would have enough money for Christmas 
presents. Mr B says the salesman told him it was an interest-free agreement. In fact, it was 
actually a running account credit agreement under which no interest would be charged on 
any money he repaid within the first nine months, but from 28 August 2020 interest would be 
charged on any outstanding balance at an APR of 24.9%. Mr B signed the agreement 
without reading it, because it was so busy in the store. He says he thought he was only 
signing a direct debit mandate.
The salesman asked Mr B for an email address. Mr B says he told the salesman he no 
longer had an email address, but he offered to give his old work email address, to which he 
no longer had access. The salesman accepted this. Mr B says he asked the salesman if he 
would still receive all of the paperwork in the post, and the salesman assured him that he 
would. But this was untrue, and nothing was ever sent to him in the post. Creation relies on a 
clause in the credit agreement which states that all correspondence and statements will be 
sent to the email address provided by the consumer.
No payments were made to Mr B’s account during the interest-free period. Mr B noticed that 
no payments were leaving his bank account, but he says that since the fridge was not 
delivered until August 2020, he assumed that Creation had not begun collecting payments 
by direct debit yet, and were waiting until all of the goods had been delivered.
On 28 August, Creation charged nearly £500 of interest to Mr B’s account. Starting in 
September, monthly payments were made to Creation by direct debit from his account. Mr B 
says he first noticed these payments in January 2021. He asked Creation to waive some or 
all of the interest, but when Creation refused he paid off the entire balance. By then he had 
incurred over £700 of interest. He complained.
Creation did not accept that the credit agreement had been mis-sold. Mr B brought this 
complaint to our service. He asked for the interest to be refunded.
Creation told us that the retailer’s sales staff are too well trained for Mr B’s allegations to be 
plausible. It argued that Mr B had signed the agreement, so he knew or should have known 
what he had agreed to. It said it had sent statements to him by email before the interest-free 
period had expired.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He accepted Mr B’s account of events. Since Mr B no 
longer had access to his email address, and had told the salesman that, the emails Creation 
had sent him were irrelevant. He thought the agreement had been mis-sold, and that 
Creation was responsible for the mis-sale, having regard to section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. He said that if Mr B had known about the deadline, he would have made his  
payments in time, and avoided incurring any interest. So he recommended that Creation 
refund all of the interest, and pay interest on the refund.
Creation asked for an ombudsman’s decision. I wrote a provisional decision along the 
following lines. (I have made some changes to reflect some points since made by Mr B.)
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint, but not to award Mr B a refund of the 
interest. Rather, I am currently minded to tell Creation to pay him £50 for his inconvenience. 
I will explain why.
I think that Mr B’s explanation of what happened is credible, and I accept it (notwithstanding 
that it was actually the day before Black Friday). While I have no doubt that the retailer’s 
sales staff receive adequate training, I cannot accept that mistakes are never made, and 
there is no evidence to contradict Mr B’s recollection of events.
I am satisfied that the salesman made an error during the sale. He should not have accepted 
an email address which Mr B had told him he no longer had access to. I presume, based on 
the wording of the relevant clause in Creation’s terms and conditions, that if no email 
address had been recorded, his copy of the agreement and his statements would have been 
sent to him by post. The salesman also erred by telling Mr B that these would be sent to him 
in the post, when that was clearly not true, as the terms and conditions made clear.
Taking into account section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, I think it is fair to say that 
Creation is responsible for those errors, even though it was not aware of them. For that 
reason, I am upholding this complaint. But it does not necessarily follow that the remedy is to 
refund all of the interest, and in this case I don’t think that would be fair. That is because 
what happened during the sale was not the only reason why Mr B ended up paying interest 
on the account; I have also taken into consideration everything that happened after that.
Mr B did not read what he was signing. That was his choice. I appreciate that it was busy 
and so he felt rushed, but I don’t think that is the salesman’s fault. He knew he was entering 
a credit agreement, and while I don’t think it was unreasonable of him to sign the agreement 
and read it later (because there was a 14 day cooling-off period during which he could 
withdraw from the agreement), he was expecting to receive the paperwork in the post, and 
yet when it didn’t arrive he didn’t pursue that at the time. Had he done so, I am sure Creation 
would have posted it to him (because that is what Creation did do when he finally asked for 
the agreement), and then he would have known that he had to pay off the balance by 28 
August.
Mr B assumed, without being told, that his direct debit payments had not started because the 
fridge had not yet been delivered. I think it would have been prudent to check that. I do not 
accept that his assumption that he did not have to pay anything until the fridge was delivered 
means that it would be fair to require Creation to repay all of the interest.
I have no doubt that Mr B could afford to pay for his purchases immediately, since that was 
what he had intended to do originally. So as soon as he learned that there was a deadline 
for repayment, whether as a result of chasing Creation for the account opening documents 
or by verifying that payments were not yet due, he would have been able to pay in good time 
and avoid incurring any interest.
For both of those reasons, I think that refunding over £700 of interest would not be 
proportionate… I am currently minded to order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr B 
£50.
Responses to my provisional decision
Creation accepted my provisional findings. Mr B did not. He explained that he had been very 
busy during the interest-free period, due to having building work done at home from 18 
November 2019 to January 2020, two elderly relatives living in care homes (although visits 
became impossible from March 2020 due to the covid-19 lockdown), and a family 
bereavement in May 2020. He said he hadn’t known that the finance agreement had been 
with Creation; he had thought it was with the retailer directly. He therefore had not 
recognised the direct debit payments when he noticed them on his bank statement.
My findings
I accept that Mr B did not realise that his credit agreement was with Creation, but I’m sure 
that if he had asked the retailer for the paperwork then they would have referred him to 
Creation.
It appears that a direct debit must have been set up at the point of sale, since direct debit 
payments to Creation started in September 2020 without Mr B setting up any kind of 
payment in the meantime. This is in accordance with Mr B’s recollection of events, since he 
told us he thought he signed a direct debit mandate at the time (albeit that he’d thought he 
was authorising payments to the retailer). So I conclude that he signed a direct debit 
mandate (as well as the credit agreement) at the point of sale. He therefore must have 
expected payments to begin once the fridge was delivered. The fact that the payments were 
actually made to Creation instead of to the retailer may have come as a surprise to him, but 
I do not think that was such a shock that it deserves the payment of compensation. Also, as 
I have said, if Mr B had asked the retailer for the paperwork, he would have learned of 
Creation’s involvement long before September.
I recognise that Mr B was busy, and I was sorry to read about his bereavement. However, 
since he was still able to go shopping for a television after the building work had started, 
I don’t think that the building work and care home visits would have prevented him from 
chasing the retailer for a copy of his credit agreement when it didn’t arrive as expected. That 
would only have taken a phone call, or a short letter.
For these reasons, I have not changed my opinion that £50 is fair compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
