DRN-3692482
The complaint
Mrs E complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs E was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Creation.
Prior to delivery of the car, the MOT issued an advisory for an oil leak. The supplying dealer 
said this would be repaired before Mrs E took delivery of the car.
When she got the car, Mrs E experienced noises and vibration. She took the car to a third 
party garage for a health check. This showed that the oil leak was still present. The garage 
advised Mrs E to change the air filter as the noise seemed to be coming from there.
Mrs E contacted the supplying dealer to advise it of the issues. She also arranged a further 
MOT. Further issues were found at MOT.
Mrs E contacted Creation. It advised her that the supplying dealer should be given the 
opportunity to repair the car. The car was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs.
When Mrs E collected the car, she noticed an issue with the gearbox and vibration. She took 
the car to a third party garage who recommended that she took the car to a specialist 
garage. Mrs E took the car to a specialist garage, who said the oil leak was still present and 
that damage had been caused to the gearbox. The garage said it wasn’t able to check the oil 
levels because the dipstick was seized in the oil cylinder.
Mrs E wasn’t happy to drive the car after this. She says it was declared SORN in July 2021.
Mrs E complained to Creation. It arranged an independent inspection of the car. The 
engineer found several fault codes. He was unable to check the oil level because the 
dipstick was seized. The engineer didn’t test drive the car. The report concluded that 
because of the time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply the fault wouldn’t have 
been present the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent report, Creation refused to allow a rejection.
Mrs E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that the oil leak wasn’t successfully 
repaired by the supplying dealer and said that Mrs E should be allowed to reject the car. The 
investigator said she didn’t think the independent inspector had been provided with full 
details of the cars history and was unaware of the previous attempts to repair the leak. The 
investigator felt that the independent inspection would’ve reached a different conclusion if he 
had full knowledge of the facts.
Creation didn’t agree. It queried why the dipstick was seized and said that because it wasn’t 
seized at MOT, this pointed towards interference or damage. It also said that an 
unauthorised change had been made to the car when the air filter was fitted.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there’s a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the business 
to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair 
isn’t successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
At the point of supply, the car was around 8 years old and had covered around 90,515 miles. 
I’d expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs 
and maintenance than, for instance, a brand new car.
I’ve reviewed all of the available information. Based on what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that the 
car had a fault. This is because Mrs E reported issues as soon as she got the car, a third 
party garage diagnosed an oil leak, a specialist garage diagnosed an oil leak and the 
independent inspector concluded that the car had faults.
I’ve gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see that an MOT was carried out on the car prior to it being supplied to Mrs E. This 
identified an oil leak. Mrs E has provided evidence showing that the supplying dealer 
advised her that the leak had been repaired prior to her taking delivery of the car.
I can also see that Mrs E took the car for a health check in May 2021. This identified that the 
oil leak was still present. Because of this, I don’t think the supplying dealers’ repairs were 
successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mrs E would have been able to reject the car at 
this point. 
The car was inspected in November 2021. The inspector found that the dipstick was 
jammed, so he was unable to check the oil level. But he said he found evidence of an oil 
leak around the sump pan area.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m persuaded that there was an oil leak which was present at the 
point of supply. The supplying dealers attempt at repair was unsuccessful on two occasions. 
The independent report identified the oil leak but concluded that it would be have been 
present at the point of supply because of the time and mileage elapsed.
I have some concerns about the independent engineer’s conclusion. Its clear from the cars 
history that there was an oil leak at the point of supply and that this wasn’t successfully 
repaired on a subsequent attempt. But the engineer hasn’t referenced the previous oil leak 
at all. This gives me reason to think that the engineer wasn’t made aware of the full history of 
the car and reached his conclusion without being in possession of all of the relevant facts. In 
my view, the engineer’s conclusion isn’t reliable for this reason.
I’ve taken all the evidence into account. Having done so, I’m persuaded that the car wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed 
one opportunity to put things right. There’s already been two attempts at repairing the oil 
leak, so the correct outcome here is a rejection.
I’ve taken into account the points made by Creation about the jammed dipstick and the air 
filter. I don’t think these points are relevant to my finding that the car wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality because of the oil leak. But I’ll deal with the points for the sake of completeness. In 
relation to the dipstick, there’s no evidence as to how, or when this happened. But I think its 
reasonable to assume that the dipstick wasn’t seized when Mrs E had the car checked in 
May 2021, because no mention of it is made. So, I think it seized sometime after this. Its 
clear from the evidence that there was an oil leak at the point of supply. There’s nothing to 
suggest that the oil leak was caused by the seized dipstick.
The air filter was replaced as part of an attempt to resolve the noise issue. I’ve found that the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality because of the oil leak. There’s no evidence to suggest that 
there’s a fault with the air filter, or that changing the air filter caused the oil leak. The oil leak 
was present before the air filter was changed.
Putting things right
I’ve already explained why I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied and 
that Mrs E should be able to reject it.
Its clear that Mrs E has been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s had to take the car back 
to various garages and hasn’t been able to drive it since November 2021. In fact, Mrs E says 
she had the car SORN prior to this but I haven’t seen evidence of that, so I’m in agreement 
with the investigator that November 2021 is the relevant date for calculating any refund of 
payments under the agreement.
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs E
Refund all monthly payments made since 16 November 2021 together with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs E’s credit file in relation to the agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
