DRN-4370113
The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd reported adverse information on his 
credit file unfairly.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr R applied for a credit account with Creation. He used the account 
regularly to make purchases from a retailer.
In February 2022 Mr R purchased goods from the retailer and charged these to his Creation 
account. The agreement had a special offer date of 25 August 2022, meaning that if the 
purchase price was settled in full by that date there would be no interest charged.
At the time of purchase, Mr R had a credit limit of £1500 on the Creation account. The 
purchase price of the goods was £1500.
Mr R says that at the time of purchase of the goods, he made a specific enquiry about 
whether, if he didn’t settle the balance within the special offer period, there would be any 
impact on his credit file. Mr R says he was told by the retailer that he wouldn’t exceed his 
credit limit in these circumstances and there would be no impact on his credit file. Mr R says 
that in reliance on that advice he entered into the agreement.
Mr R didn’t settle the balance within the special offer period. He started making monthly 
repayments at the end of the special offer period. These payments included interest.
Later that year, Mr R applied for a loan. He wasn’t offered the rate he expected and on 
making enquiries, was advised that his credit file had ben impacted by an over credit marker 
from Creation.
Mr R complained to Creation. He said he’d never been advised that he had exceeded his 
credit limit. He felt that Creation had reported incorrectly on his credit file.
Creation issued a final response in which it said that Mr R had missed the special offer date 
and that interest had been correctly applied to his account as per the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. It said that the interest applied to the account had taken Mr R over his credit 
limit of £1500 and that this had been correctly reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that under section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, Creation could be held responsible for statements made by the merchant to 
Mr R prior to the point of supply. The investigator said she thought Mr R’s testimony about 
what the merchant had said was plausible and said that if Mr R had been given correct 
information about the consequences of not settling the balance within the special offer 
period, he would likely have made a payment towards the balance to avoid going over the 
credit limit and having adverse information reported on his credit file. The investigator said 
that Creation should remove the over limit marker from Mr R’s credit file and pay 
compensation of £100.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it hadn’t reported incorrect information to the credit reference 
agencies. Creation said that Mr R was aware that if the balance of £1500 wasn’t settled 
within the special offer period, interest charges of £596 would be applied meaning that the 
total amount payable would increase to £2096. Creation said that if Mr R had the intention 
not to settle the account within the special offer period, he should’ve taken into consideration 
that the total amount payable would be higher than his credit limit.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to be clear about what Mr R is complaining about here. He isn’t 
complaining about the application of interest to the account, or the amount, or the balance 
owed. His complaint is that he was told by the merchant prior to entering into the agreement 
that if he didn’t settle the account within the special offer period, he wouldn’t exceed his 
credit limit and there wouldn’t be any impact on his credit file.
The advice given to Mr R by the merchant was incorrect. Creation hasn’t made an error by 
adding interest to the account. With the addition of the interest, the balance has exceeded 
Mr R’s credit limit. A provider of credit is under an obligation to report accurate information to 
the credit reference agencies. In this case, it would be accurate to report that Mr R had 
exceeded his credit limit.
However, the whole point of Mr R’s complaint is that he was told by the merchant that there 
would be no impact on his credit file if he didn’t settle the balance within the special offer 
period. Creation has said that it can’t comment on what the merchant did or didn’t say. But 
what the merchant said is relevant because under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, Creation can be held liable for untrue statements made by the merchant.
I therefore need to determine whether its more likely than not that the merchant made an 
untrue statement to Mr R in the way that Mr R has described.
There’s no record of what was said. So I’ve looked at what I think are other relevant factors 
here. 
I’ve reviewed Mr R’s credit account with Creation. He’s held this account since 2017 and it’s 
been well managed. Mr R has chosen not to to settle the balance within special offer periods 
in the past so he knows that interest will be added, and he’s always made the correct 
payments. In his written and verbal communications with this service, Mr R presents as 
financially astute. So whilst I can’t be certain of exactly what was said in the discussion 
between Mr R and the merchant prior to the point of supply, I am persuaded by the clear and 
consistent testimony that Mr R has provided about the questions that he asked and the 
responses given by the merchant. I think it’s more likely than not that the merchant told Mr R 
that there would be no impact on his credit file if he didn’t settle within the special offer 
period. If the merchant hadn’t made this statement, I don’t think Mr R would’ve acted the way 
he did. I think he would have either settled the balance within the special offer period or 
taken steps to make a payment to reduce the balance so that the interest didn’t cause him to 
exceed the credit limit and impact his credit file.
In conclusion, I’m persuaded that the merchant gave incorrect advice to Mr R which caused 
him to think that if he didn’t settle within the special offer period his credit file would be 
impacted. In the circumstances, Creation is responsible for the merchant’s statement under 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Putting things right
In section 56 cases, this service would look to pout the consumer back in the position they 
were in had the statement not been made. But it isn’t always possible to do that.
Mr R has said that the over limit marker impacted on his ability to obtain other credit. 
However, I haven’t seen evidence to prove that this was solely down to Creation’s marker. 
Lending decisions are influenced by a range of factors and without clear evidence that it was 
solely Creations marker that caused Mr R to be offered a different rate of interest to that 
expected, I can’t hold Creation liable for any losses incurred by Mr R as a result.
That said, and having found liability under section 56, I think Creation has acted unfairly here 
by reporting the over credit marker to the credit reference agencies. So I think the marker 
should be removed from Mr R’s credit file.
Mr R has explained the impact that this has had on him. He’s been caused frustration 
because of Creation’s response to his complaint, because Creation didn’t deal with the issue 
raised by Mr R about the incorrect information given to him by the merchant. This has 
caused Mr R distress and inconvenience, for which I think Creation should pay 
compensation. I think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Remove the marker from Mr R’s credit file
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
