 
 
DRN-4329537 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) responded to 
claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged unfair 
relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the “CCA”). Mr S’s claims were in relation to solar panels that he had bought and were paid 
for through a loan with Creation.  
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a third party. 
What happened 
In February 2013 Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The loan was 
for a solar panel system which cost £11,895. The loan was to be repaid by two payments of 
£228.77 and regular instalments of £153.77 over the 120 month term. Although the amount 
borrowed was £11,895, with interest and charges the total amount repayable under the loan 
was £18,502.40.  
Mr S complains that the solar panel system was missold. More specifically, Mr S’s 
representative has said ‘…the sales representative made a number of misrepresentations to 
our client, the main misrepresentation which induced our client to enter into the contract was 
that the system was ‘self-funding’. Our client was advised that the electricity which was 
generated by the system would lead to them being paid the feed-in tariff which would 
generate an income under the government backed scheme. Our client was also told that 
they would make significant savings on their electricity bills. The sales representative was 
adamant that the financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system 
which would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.’   
Creation responded to Mr S’s claim and explained why in its view that Mr S’s claim had been 
submitted too late. Mr S remained unhappy and his representative brought his complaint to 
our service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Mr S’s 
claim had not been submitted too late, but they had seen insufficient evidence to determine 
Mr S had been missled about the benefits of the solar panel system. They did not therefore 
consider the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr S’s representative did not accept the investigator’s findings and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman to consider. The case was passed to a different investigator, 
who asked Mr S’s representative for some further information. The representative was asked 
to contact Mr S and for Mr S to explain in his own words why he had decided to take out the 
solar panels system and what he was told about the panels and costs by the sales 
representative.  
Mr S’s representative asked for more time to respond but despite further time being allowed, 
more than two months has now passed and we have not received anything further. When 
allowing more time to respond, the investigator explained that no further time would be 
granted if we had not received a response by the deadline. As no response was received, 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider as the final stage in our process.  
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr S 
has complained about the misrepresentations made by the solar panels supplier have 
created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A CCA.  
Mr S is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. 
This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc [2023] UKSC 34. S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same 
way as s.75. Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and 
debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor 
exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done 
by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or 
any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. The 
High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the 
determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. 
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a 
creditor should conduct its relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective 
measures. In particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to 
expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. 
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether such 
an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the relationship 
ended. In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The 
question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, 
whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. 
That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to 
that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship. In Mr S’s case the relationship had finished approximately one 
month before the claim was submitted to Creation and three months before complaining to 
our service. Mr S has six years in which to bring a complaint from the event complained of 
and as Mr S was complaining about the unfair relationship with Creation which had only just 
 
 
ended, the complaint was made within the six year time period.  
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr S’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the solar panels 
supplier can be considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. In 
Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. 
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming 
the solar panels supplier to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Taking 
this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me to 
consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by the solar panels supplier for which Creation was responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.  
What happened?  
Mr S’s representative has set out that Mr S was effectively told the benefits of the solar 
panels system would cover the cost of the loan with Creation and the system would 
therefore be self funding. Our service asked that Mr S provide some further details about 
why he decided to take out the solar panel system and what he was told about the costs and 
benefits of the system. Despite allowing considerable time for a response, nothing has been 
submitted to our service and we have no direct submissions from Mr S about exactly what 
happened in this instance when taking out the solar panels system and loan with Creation.  
I appreciate some time has now passed since the system was sold to him and some of the 
finer details may not be as clear now because of the passage of time. But Mr S’s 
representative was clear enough about Mr S being misled to submit the complaint and it 
would not therefore be unreasonable to expect Mr S to provide some further clarification 
about what happened in his specific circumstances.  
I have considered the documentation that has been submitted in this case and this includes 
a number of documents from the time of the sale. The Creation fixed sum loan agreement 
sets out what the cost of the loan will be each month in repayments, along with the overall 
cost of the loan. There is a document, dated 7 February 2013, from the supplier that refers to 
the £11,895 cost of the system and I note this makes no reference to the additional costs 
through interest and charges on the loan Mr S will need to pay to Creation. But I have not 
been presented with anything that refers to the likely savings or benefits the solar panels 
system was expected to produce.  
The documentary evidence in this case is somewhat limited and Mr S has not provided a 
response to our request for further clarification about what he was told at the time of the 
sale. I have noted what Mr S’s representative has said about other complaints with our 
service involving the same supplier being upheld, but I am required to consider the specific 
 
 
circumstance of this complaint and what went on in Mr S’s case.  
Overall, I’ve not seen enough in this particular case to persuade me on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr S was told the benefits of the solar panels would have paid for the loan 
repayments over the course of the loan. It therefore seems unlikely to me that Mr S’s 
relationship with Creation is unfair as a result of a misrepresentation or contractual promise 
made by the solar panels supplier to Mr S when the solar panels were sold to him. And it is 
ultimately for these reasons that I do not consider Mr S’s complaint against Creation should 
be upheld.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2025. 
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
