DRN-4063838
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has mishandled her claim under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) in respect of building works to a
conservatory which were financed via a fixed sum loan, and which were of a poor standard.
What happened
This complaint has a lengthy background which is well known to the parties. I have therefore
only set out a brief overview of events.
In March 2021 Mrs C entered into an agreement for a company to supply and fit a new roof
and doors to her existing conservatory. The works were to be paid for via a fixed sum loan
with Creation over 120 months. The loan had a one-year deferment period after the advance
date, so payments didn’t fall due until after this time had passed.
In or around May 2021 the works commenced, and a satisfaction note as to the quality of the
work was signed by Mrs C’s husband. However, in June 2021 Mrs C contacted Creation as
she was unhappy with both the standard of work and that the job had not been completed.
She said that the doors hadn’t been measured correctly and didn’t fit properly, that there
were problems with the quality of the plastering and the roof was leaking. Mrs C said a new
floor was to be installed but this had to be put on hold because of the issues.
Creation contacted the retailer and they replied that they had already inspected the work and
had ordered all the materials required to complete the job. They said they were just awaiting
delivery of some tiles.
Creation wrote to Mrs C and said that it acknowledged there were faults with the works that
had been carried out and it would uphold her claim under section 75. Creation said that as
the retailer had agreed to fix the faults and had ordered the materials to do so, it was
satisfied this was a fair resolution.
Mrs C says that she then waited for the retailer to return but there was little contact from
them and although some delay was due to covid, the remedial work wasn’t undertaken. Mrs
C complained to this service.
Mrs C said that there were still a number of issues with the conservatory roof and doors
including the roof leaking when it rained, missing guttering and downpipe, damage to a
window which had buckled, chipped door handles, poor workmanship, damage to the under-
flooring, cracks to plaster and damage to various pieces of furniture as they had been left out
in the rain when the work had been taking place. Mrs C supplied a number of photos of the
problems with the conservatory roof, the quality of the workmanship and damage to the
furniture.
Mrs C said she had been told the original installation would be completed within a week.
However, she said it had now been over a year and there were still substantial faults that
needed resolving. Mrs C said that she had lost faith in the retailer and would like a different
company to replace the roof and repair the damage done to the conservatory.
Mrs C was asked to obtain quotes from independent contractors for the cost of the required
remedial work. In November 2021, she provided two which were very different as one set out
the cost of taking down and replacing the whole conservatory at a total cost of £35,690 and
the second was for £12,600 to remove and replace the roof.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs C’s complaint should be upheld. She said that she
could see from the evidence provided that there was undoubtedly some damage to Mrs C’s
property, and the installation remained unfinished. She said that under the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 there was an implied term in Mrs C’s contract with the retailer, that the installation
should be of satisfactory quality and fitted with reasonable care and skill. She said she
thought that the work that had been done was neither satisfactory nor to a reasonable
standard and in areas was still incomplete. 
Our investigator said that she thought the most suitable remedy here was for Creation to
arrange for the installation to be made good, together with the damage caused as a result of
the poor fitting to date. As Mrs C had lost faith in the retailer, the investigator said she
thought Creation needed to appoint a suitably qualified building contractor, other
than the retailer to repair all the damage to Mrs C’s property that was directly attributable to
the roof installation.
Following our investigator’s view, the retailer returned to Mrs C’s property and further
remedial works were carried out over time. However, Mrs C says that despite this, the roof is
still leaking, that seals around the doors are large and ugly and can’t be removed, that the
doors and window are still out of line, and she hasn’t been compensated for the damage to
the furniture. She has provided further new photos showing the damp on the ceiling. Mrs C
has estimated the damage to the furniture and flooring to be around £1,650.
Mrs C was asked to obtain further quotes as to the cost of fixing the ongoing problems with
the conservatory roof and doors but, despite her efforts, she hadn’t been able to do so.
Creation said it wasn’t in a position to arrange for quotes.
In light of the amount of time that had now passed I thought it would be fair for me to issue 
my provisional decision even without the quotes, as I could see Mrs C had tried to obtain 
these without success. I was also aware of the distress and inconvenience the faults with the 
work undertaken on the conservatory had caused and continued to cause Mrs C. I issued 
my provisional decision along the following lines.
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit, if there has been a
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Here, I thought it had been agreed 
by Creation that Mrs C’s claim in respect of the work undertaken to her conservatory had 
met the requirements of a section 75 claim. Looking at the evidence that had been supplied, 
I agreed that Mrs C had shown there had been a breach of contract by the retailer in respect
of the quality of the work undertaken to the conservatory. And so, my role was to decide
whether Creation had gone on to handle Mrs C's fairly and reasonably.
Originally, Creation had found that it was a fair resolution for the retailer to return and resolve 
the issues. And I’d seen that there had been a number of visits by the retailer in an attempt 
to fix things and finish the outstanding works. However, it was clear from the photos that had 
been provided that the roof was still leaking when raining. Mrs C also remained unhappy 
about the poor alignment of the doors and windows which had been raised on the
satisfaction note signed by Mrs C’s husband in September 2022. And from the photos
provided it appeared that the side panels and windowsills remained out of line.
I appreciated that the windows weren’t something that the retailer had provided and that the 
retailer had also raised that it was the construction of the conservatory which might have 
been the cause of the issue with the door. But I hadn’t seen a survey report from either the 
retailer or an independent company setting out in detail what the issues were. The retailer 
didn’t appear to agree that the workmanship on the roof had been poor. Because of the lack 
of report, I couldn’t reasonably say whether there were issues with the conservatory frame 
itself which had been caused by the new roof. And as the conservatory hadn’t been supplied 
or constructed by the retailer, I would need evidence that showed that. However, I was 
satisfied that when looking at the photos of the roof and doors the workmanship appeared to 
be poor.
Mrs C said that when she had obtained the two quotes back in November 2021, that both
companies who had inspected the work had advised her the conservatory would need to be 
taken down and rebuilt because the frame had buckled due to the work on the roof. 
However, only one of the quotes Mrs C had provided was for reconstruction of the 
conservatory. The other had only been for a replacement roof. Neither quote had provided 
details of the problems that had been found.
I therefore thought that I would need to see evidence from an independent contractor that 
the conservatory building itself had been so undermined by the construction of the new roof
that it required replacing before I could say that Creation should accept the invoice for
removing and constructing a new conservatory.
However, I was satisfied that Mrs C had produced sufficient evidence to support that,
despite the various visits from the retailer, the roof was still faulty. Looking at the length of
time this had taken, and the number of attempts to fix it, then I thought it was more likely 
than not that the issue with the roof wasn’t minor, and for an unknown reason the doors were 
out of alignment. I thought it was more likely than not the roof would need to be refitted since 
repair work hadn’t fixed the leaking or the way the doors fitted and there were likely to be 
major unresolved issues as to the roof construction meaning it would need to be stripped off
entirely and re-fitted.
I therefore thought it would be fair for Creation to settle this by cancelling the credit 
agreement between itself and Mrs C and return any payments made by her with interest. 
Mrs C will then need to arrange with a separate contractor for a new roof to be fitted and for 
the doors to be replaced.
Mrs C had raised that she had suffered consequential losses during the works as damage 
had been caused to various pieces of furniture when placed in the garden. She had supplied 
photos of this. However, the retailer had disagreed they had any liability for this. They said 
that they had requested for the conservatory to be empty when the work had been 
undertaken because they were replacing the roof. It was, the retailer said, Mrs C’s choice to 
put the items in the garden due to an issue of space.
Creation said one of the contractors working on the property had offered a tarpaulin to
cover the items but this had been as a gesture because it was raining rather than taking
responsibility for the furniture.
I’d seen Mrs C had explained the furniture had been placed in the garden due to there being 
a lack of space to store it in the property. And although there wasn’t a document from the
retailer setting out that the conservatory had to be emptied before the work could be
undertaken, I thought it was more likely than not that this would have been requested when 
the survey by the retailer had been undertaken about the work. And since this had involved 
the fitting of a new roof, I thought it was reasonable for the retailer to have requested the 
furniture was moved.
I also thought it was reasonable for the retailer to have expected Mrs C to make those
arrangements and while I appreciated Mrs C may not have had anywhere to move her
furniture other than into the garden, I didn’t think I could reasonably say that the retailer and
therefore, Creation was responsible for any consequent damage for her having done so. I
didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in not offering compensation for the
damage to the furniture.
Mrs C had also raised an issue about damage to the flooring, but I had seen that in her
original complaint to Creation the flooring was to be replaced and this had been put
on hold until the work on the conservatory had been completed. So, I was unsure whether
the plan was originally to replace the flooring, particularly as new doors were being fitted,
and the new frame would be likely to damage the flooring around the threshold. However,
if I was wrong about that, then I would be grateful if Mrs C could provide details as to when
the floor had been fitted and when and how it had been damaged, and I would of course 
have been happy to look at that again.
I appreciated that the sofa has gotten wet from the roof leaking when returned to the
conservatory, Mrs C had given an estimate to have it cleaned. In order for me to consider
that I needed her to provide me with an actual quote.
I’d seen that this had been a very stressful time for Mrs C, and I thought it was reasonable to
say she had suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with the faulty work on the
conservatory. I didn’t think Creation had been supportive and there had been periods
when it hadn’t responded to Mrs C or to this service. I thought compensation would be fair 
and looking at the impact I thought £500 would be fair. I appreciated there has been an 
impact on Mrs C’s family and that her husband has been unwell, but as the financial 
agreement was between Mrs C and Creation then I could only consider Mrs C when looking 
at an appropriate amount of compensation.
So, for the reasons set out above I was intending to uphold Mrs C’ complaint.
Mrs C has agreed with my provisional decision and hasn’t asked me to look again at the 
consequential losses she’d claimed nor about the settlement I proposed. Creation also 
hasn’t asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision, it asked me to clarify that it 
wouldn’t be responsible for removing the roof as well as cancelling the financial agreement 
and reimbursing Mrs C.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to reconsider my provisional decision, I have still 
reviewed the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. I haven’t changed my mind. I 
think that Creation didn’t handle Mrs C’s section 75 claim fairly as the works on the 
conservatory have still not been rectified and faults remain.
In light of the faults that are still present with the conservatory roof and doors, I think it’s fair 
for the credit agreement to be cancelled and for Mrs C to be reimbursed any payments she 
has made under that agreement. However, for the reasons set out, above I’m not asking 
Creation to reimburse Mrs C for any consequential damage to the furniture.
I also think that compensation is due to Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty works and £500 is a fair amount to reflect the impact this has had on 
her.
I confirm I am not asking Creation to be responsible for removing the conservatory roof. 
Once the agreement has been cancelled and the reimbursements/compensation paid, it will 
be for Mrs C to arrange and be responsible for the required work.
I’m therefore upholding Mrs C’s complaint.
Putting things right
As set out above, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I’m asking Creation Consumer
Finance Ltd to do the following:

Cancel the fixed sum loan and refund Mrs C any monthly or lump sum payments 
made under the agreement together with simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mrs C the amount of £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience dealing with the faulty works to the conservatory.

Remove any adverse information reported in respect of this account from Mrs C’s
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Cancel the fixed sum loan and refund Mrs C any monthly or lump sum payments 
made under the agreement together with simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement. *

Pay Mrs C the amount of £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience dealing with the faulty works to the conservatory.

Remove any adverse information reported in respect of this account from Mrs C’s
credit file.
 
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs C how much they’ve taken off. They should also give Mrs C a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
