DRN-4248901
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s response to a claim she made to it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She’s assisted in bringing this complaint 
by her son, Mr D. For ease of reading I’ll refer to any actions or submissions by Mr or Mrs D 
as being from Mrs D.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs D had some replacement doors and windows supplied and fitted by a 
company “W”. She paid for the work using a fixed sum loan provided by Creation. Shortly 
after the fitting, Mrs D identified a number of problems with the work W had carried out, most 
notably in relation to the installation of the front windows, which she felt was defective. She 
attempted to resolve the issue with W, who over the course of the following months visited 
her property to make adjustments and check the work had been carried out to an 
appropriate standard.
Unfortunately, Mrs D remained dissatisfied with the windows, which continued to be 
draughty and noisy when it was windy outside. She ended up getting a quote from an 
alternative fitter to replace the windows at a cost of £1,140, which she sought to claim from 
W. By July 2022 W considered that it had resolved the problems and wasn’t willing to cover 
the cost of the replacement windows. Mrs D turned to Creation, which has a potential liability 
for a breach of contract claim against W under the connected lender liability provisions of 
section 75.
Creation made enquiries of W to establish the actions it had taken to rectify the problems. 
After receiving W’s version of events, Creation declined to meet Mrs D’s claim, saying that W 
had advised it had carried out repairs to a suitable standard. Mrs D ended up replacing the 
windows with the alternative fitter in November 2022.
Mrs D was unhappy with Creation’s response to her claim and asked us to look into matters. 
Our investigator noted the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) and the 
number of times W had been out to attempt to rectify various issues. He felt this, along with 
the evidence Mrs D supplied, pointed to the windows failing to meet the threshold for 
satisfactory quality.
The investigator wasn’t satisfied that the evidence Creation provided demonstrated W had 
carried out an effective repair. He recommended that Creation adjust the loan balance by 
£1,140, that it pay Mrs D £250 compensation for the difficulties she’d experienced, and that it 
arrange for a different fitter to check the outstanding issue Mrs D had with the other window 
and door handles.
Creation has agreed to the investigator’s recommendation of £250 for Mrs D’s distress and 
inconvenience. It hasn’t agreed to his other recommendations, maintaining the position 
taken by W that the problems with the windows had been rectified by W in July 2022. It has 
cited W’s own inspection report in support of that position.
Our investigator wasn’t persuaded by Creation’s arguments. Creation said it would respond 
further when it had discussed the matter further with W. However, other than its agreement 
to the £250 payment mentioned, Creation has provided no further evidence and in the 
interests of resolving matters, the complaint has been passed to me for review and 
determination. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties accept that the transaction in question meets the requirements – both in financial 
terms and in the way the arrangements were structured – to enable Mrs D to bring a claim 
under section 75. For clarity, section 75 has the effect that, if Mrs D has a claim in 
misrepresentation or in breach of contract against W, she has a like claim (joint and several) 
against Creation. Here, her claim is one of breach of contract; that is, that the service W 
undertook to provide to her was not carried out with reasonable skill and care, as 
incorporated into the contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”).
Creation accept that Mrs D has such a claim. Indeed, given W’s undertaking of rectification 
work it would be difficult to reach any other conclusion than that the service relating to the 
original installation failed to meet the appropriate standard. With this in mind, the question is 
not whether there was a breach of contract, but whether the acknowledged breach was 
remedied by W’s subsequent rectification work.
Mrs D considered that it had not. She said the windows were still draughty and there was a 
whistling sound when it was windy. W provided its own inspection report, dated 14 July 
2022, signed off by its head of installations. W’s report concluded that it had rectified the 
problems that had been identified, and that there were no leaks or draughts on the date of its 
visit. It appears that Creation seeks to rely on W’s report in support of its position that it has 
no further liability to Mrs D.
I don’t consider it reasonable for Creation to place as much reliance as it has on W’s report. 
Aside from the rather basic position that a report compiled by W can’t properly be considered 
to be independent evidence, W’s letter of 22 July 2022 advised there was no wind on the 
day the inspection was carried out. I can’t therefore see how it provides Creation with 
sufficient evidence that the additional work resolved the problems caused by the original 
installation.
I’m conscious that it is now not possible to obtain an independent inspection that might have 
properly established whether the noise and draughts persisted after W completed its work. 
I’ve no reason to think Mrs D would have proceeded in November 2022 to replace the 
windows if the problems had been fixed. Further, it was open to Creation to obtain and 
provide persuasive evidence that an effective remedy had been performed before Mrs D had 
the windows replaced. She informed it of her claim in early August 2022, and it set out its 
response later that month. If that opportunity has since passed, I don’t consider Creation can 
fairly argue that was down to Mrs D’s actions.
I’ve noted the comments relating to the window and door handles, and it seems that this 
remains an outstanding concern that requires further inspection and possibly rectification. 
I’m satisfied Mrs D raised it within the guarantee period and within a reasonable time period 
that might apply under considerations of durability. So I find it appropriate to include this 
aspect within the overall resolution intended to bring matters to a close.
It doesn’t seem to me reasonable to say that Creation has done enough to demonstrate it 
has had proper regard for its potential liability to Mrs D, given the known shortcomings of 
W’s report and the onus the CRA places on the trader (and by extension, Creation) to 
demonstrate the work conformed to contract. It follows that I am upholding Mrs D’s 
complaint.
Putting things right
The remedies available to Mrs D under the CRA include – but aren’t limited to – requiring 
repeat performance, a price reduction, reimbursement where consideration for payment of 
the money has failed, and a damages claim. Noting that Mrs D has replaced the windows 
(which appears to have addressed the problems she was experiencing), some of those 
remedies are no longer appropriate. And some of them have broadly the same effect as 
each other.
Bearing all of this in mind, I share our investigator’s view that to settle Mrs D’s complaint 
(and by way of addressing Creation’s liability for the breach of contract claim), Creation 
should – within 28 days of receiving Mrs D’s acceptance of this decision – take the following 
steps:
1.
apply a credit of £1,140 to Mrs D’s finance balance to reflect the additional cost she’s 
incurred in addressing the problems caused by W’s installation. For the avoidance of 
doubt, this credit should be backdated to November 2022, when Mrs D replaced the 
windows
2.
pay Mrs D £250 (as it has already agreed to do) in recognition of her distress and 
inconvenience
3.
arrange for an appropriate business to inspect the outstanding issues with the 
window and door handles, and pay for any remedial work identified as necessary
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
take the steps I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
