 
 
DRN-4896494 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t refund her for a kitchen 
installation. 
 
What happened 
In March 2021 Mrs B used finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay for the 
supply and installation of a kitchen by a supplier. Mrs B had to pay over £7600 to Creation to 
cover the cost of the kitchen and the lending over a period of just over six years. Mrs B says 
that from the outset there were problems with the kitchen and she repeatedly to call out the 
suppliers to deal with issues with the kitchen. After a significant period of time she says she 
was fed up with this and so she complained to Creation in February 2022. There was more 
back and forth and in May 2022 the supplier attended and fixed a number of items that Mrs 
B wasn’t happy with. Similarly in June 2022 further items were remedied by the Supplier. 
Mrs B accepts that she signed off the repairs had been successful. 
 
In August 2023 she again contacted the supplier about issues she said she had with the 
kitchen only to be informed that it was going into administration and could no longer help 
her. So she returned to Creation for help with further issues. 
 
Since then there has been further back and forth. Creation initially said that all the issues 
had been remedied by the supplier and it wasn’t persuaded it didn’t need to do any more. So 
that’s why it didn’t refund her. 
 
Mrs B didn’t think this was fair, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. There was then further back and forth between the parties. The end 
position here was that Creation agreed to our Investigator’s position of partially upholding the 
complaint and the remedy of fixing some of the items identified and paying Mrs B £100. Mrs 
B didn’t agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the kitchen supplier here, which isn’t 
a financial services provider and doesn’t fall within my remit. Whatever the issues there 
maybe with the kitchen, and just because Mrs B says she has lost out, it doesn’t necessarily 
follow that Creation has treated Mrs B unfairly or that it should refund her. And this decision 
is solely about how Creation treated Mrs B. I hope this point is clear. 
 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’ for short) 
 
The CCA introduced a regime of connected lender liability under Section 75 of the CCA that 
afforded consumers (“debtors”) a right of recourse against lenders (“creditors”) that provide 
the finance for the acquisition of goods or services from a third-party merchant (the 
“supplier”).  
 
 
 
A business such as Creation can only be held responsible under S75 of the CCA if certain 
requirements are met and if there is breach of contract or misrepresentation of the contract 
and if there is that it also means that Mrs B has lost out as a result. Here I’m satisfied the 
financial limits and Debtor Creditor Supplier requirements are met. So I next need to 
consider whether there is either a material misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
 
In essence Mrs B’s frustration with the kitchen is that she feels it’s made up of ‘sub-standard’ 
materials and wasn’t installed well. 
 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out the tests to be applied in contracts such as this. In 
short this include that services should be provided with reasonable skill and care and that 
goods should be of satisfactory quality. In short it goes on to say a good is of satisfactory 
quality if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking 
account of any description of the goods, the price for the goods, and all the other relevant 
circumstances. It also goes on to explain in very broad terms that the appropriate remedy for 
goods or services include rejection, repair, or replace or price reduction and gives guidance 
for when these are and aren’t appropriate. 
 
It is clear here that when Mrs B first complained to Creation she identified issues and the 
supplier rectified these. I say this because Mrs B accepts that she signed of the repair works 
and Creation has pointed to this fact. So she was satisfied the issues she said were 
outstanding were rectified. So I’m satisfied what Creation did at that time regarding getting 
the suppliers to fix those issues and replace the kitchen items or fix them meant that 
Creation had fulfilled its obligations to that point. 
 
Recently Mrs B has made further representations showing what she considers to be 
substantial issues with the quality of the kitchen. She has provided photographs of these 
issues recently which have been reproduced in the investigators assessment of Mrs B’s 
complaint which was shared with the parties on 12 June 2024. In that assessment the 
investigator deals with the identified issues under points 1-9. So as to avoid confusion I shall 
comment on those points also and to ensure consistency. But before I do, I do have some 
broader comments to make.  
 
I’ve considered all the evidence Mrs B has provided including the photographs. The 
photographs to my mind do not show substantial issues with this kitchen. In fact although 
these are close-up photographs (often with a finger pointing to the issue) it is the case on 
some photographs that it is only be increasing the resolution of the photograph is any issue 
apparent and there is a photograph were no apparent issue is present. I should also note 
that some of the issues pointed to are significantly smaller than the finger pointing to it which 
is in close proximity to it. I should also add that this kitchen was installed over three years 
ago. And even considering the evidence from the earliest date in this long running dispute 
and the earliest photographs I’ve not seen anything to show any substantial issue to my 
mind other than those identified by the Investigator and which Creation have agreed to 
remedy. 
 
There are two important factors I have to consider when assessing such information. Is the 
evidence persuasive of the kitchen not being installed with reasonable care and skill and 
whether the kitchen items were of satisfactory quality, which includes description and price. 
Mrs B has explained how much she paid for the goods and installation and for a kitchen this 
is not a high priced kitchen to my mind but a more modest costing of goods and installation. 
And I think that’s a reasonable consideration here.  
 
I’ve also considered whether the issues Mrs B points to demonstrate that these issues were 
present at the point of sale, which I would have to decide that in order to decide that 
 
 
remedies other than repair or replace were fair. But I am not persuaded that Creation has 
been unfair in its consideration of what happened here and I say this for two main reasons. 
Firstly Mrs B accepts she agreed the repairs she asked Creation for were done and that she 
was happy everything had been resolved and this was a significant time after the installation. 
And secondly the issues she has pointed to subsequently are far from indicative that these 
issues were present at the point of installation. Creation has pointed to usage and that these 
issues are fair wear and tear (save for the items identified by the Investigator and agreed to 
be remedied by Creation. And bearing in mind Mrs B’s recent photographs show only minor 
issues (to my mind) which could just as easily have occurred over the intervening years 
through normal usage, I am far from persuaded that Mrs B has done enough to demonstrate 
that Creation has treated her unfairly in this respect. 
 
It is clear the kitchen wasn’t in line with her expectations, nevertheless such expectations are 
subjective matters and bearing in mind the relevant circumstances here I don’t think Creation 
position is unfair. I do not consider Mrs B’s arguments about ‘not of acceptable quality’ to be 
made out. Clearly the kitchen wasn’t in line with Mrs B’s expectations but that isn’t the test 
Creation need to apply. Creation’s responsibility here is to remedy matters arising and I can 
see they it did this and Mrs B agreed they had been remedied. And I’m not persuaded Mrs B 
has been treated unfairly by Creation here particularly when it has also agreed to organise 
some further repairs and payment to the issues identified after Mrs B signed off the original 
repairs when Creation got involved. 
 
In response to the Investigator’s assessment on the matter Mrs B has said “I have 
maintained right from the beginning the doors and draws in my kitchen are of substandard 
materials. You have totally overlooked this fact.” I disagree, it’s clear that those were 
repaired or replaced and that Mrs B agreed there were no further issues. Creation did what it 
was supposed to do and those items Mrs B complained about were either remedied by the 
supplier originally or by the supplier at the behest of Creation when it got involved. I consider 
that a fair remedy in the round. 
 
It is clear to me that Mrs B is very invested in this dispute and I’m sorry to disappoint her but 
in relation to the kitchen but I’m not persuaded Creation has to do more than what has so far 
been done or agreed. I do appreciate that this isn’t the decision Mrs B wants to read and the 
kitchen isn’t up to her expectations. But I’m not persuaded Creation should replace the 
kitchen as she wants. Nevertheless I’m sorry to hear about what happened and that she’s 
disappointed with her kitchen. 
  
Putting things right 
Creation should organise and pay for a workman to fix the hinges referred to in points 1,5 
and 6 of the Investigators assessment (as it has agreed to do). It should also pay Mrs B the 
agreed £100 if it hasn’t already done so. Once these issues have been done it has nothing 
further to do. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. It should remedy the matters as I’ve described above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2024. 
  
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas 
Ombudsman 
 
 
 
