DRN-4349033
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to the claims 
he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) and Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the ‘CCA’).
What Happened 
In 2014 Mr L entered into a contract with an installer (‘A’) to supply a solar panel system. He 
paid partly by cheque, and partly via a fixed term loan agreement with Creation. The price for 
the panels was £10,945 and this plus the additional costs of the loan made the total amount 
payable £12,816.82. 
The loan agreement was signed the same day as the purchase contract and Mr L repaid the 
loan in 2021. 
Mr L, via his representatives contacted Creation in 2020 to make a claim under s.75 and 
s140 of the CCA. He said the benefits of the panels had been misrepresented to him. He 
said he was led to believe the electricity savings and FIT payment income from the panels 
would cover the costs of the loan he’d taken out and leave him with a profit. In fact, there 
was a shortfall between the cost of the loan payments and the benefits, causing a financial 
loss.
Mr L also raised several points which he alleged, in addition to the misrepresentation, 
created an unfair relationship between him and Creation. He said he had not been made 
aware that Creation had commission on the sale, which was a breach of fiduciary duty, 
Creation had failed to ensure A observed the relevant codes at the time of sale, and 
insufficient credit checks had been carried out. 
Creation requested evidence from Mr L but did not respond further, and the complaint was 
brought to our service in 2021.
An investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that the benefits of the panels had 
been misrepresented to Mr L. He recommended that Creation should calculate the benefits 
from the panels over 10 years (the period of the loan) and ensure that Mr L paid no more 
than that.  
Creation did not accept the investigator’s view, and later wrote to Mr L saying it considered 
the complaint had not been made within 6 years of the sale and was out of our jurisdiction 
under DISP 2.8. It later added that the complaint was time-barred taking into account the 
provisions of the CCA and the Limitation Act 1980 (the ‘LA’).
A second investigator didn’t agree, in summary she said that as Mr L had brought his s.75 
complaint to us within 6 years of the rejection of his s.75 claim by Creation. However, she 
considered how Creation had handled the s.75 claim and felt it had not acted unreasonably 
in applying the LA when considering the arguments made to decline the s.75 claim. 
However, she concluded that Mr L’s unfair relationship complaint was made in time, as the 
starting point for both our time limits under DISP and the LA was the point the unfair 
relationship ended. Therefore, Mr L - who settled his loan in 2021 - had brought his 
complaint to us in time taking into account the approach the courts would likely take.
She concluded that misrepresentations made to Mr L at the time of the sale had created an 
unfair relationship.  She recommended that Creation should recalculate the loan and ensure 
that Mr L paid no more than the likely benefits he would receive over the loan period.  She 
also recommended that Creation pay Mr L £150 for how the complaint had been handled. 
Creation did not agree and sought several extensions to enable it to obtain external legal 
advice before responding. As nothing further was received, I issued my provisional decision 
on 3 May 2023.  
My Provisional Decision
In my provisional decision, I reached broadly the same outcome as the investigator, and set 
out in detail my reasoning for concluding why the complaint was in our jurisdiction, my 
assessment of the merits and my suggested redress.  
My reasoning was as follows
Our approach to our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (the ‘FSMA’) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook known as 
DISP. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook. The rules surrounding time limits are set out in 
DISP 2.8.2R. 
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction, and for 
the avoidance of doubt I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance so far as they 
are relevant to any disputes raised by Creation about our jurisdiction to consider Mr L’s 
complaint.
In order to explain how I have approached our jurisdiction to consider the complaint, I have 
set out how I have construed the complaint as it relates to acts or omissions surrounding the 
s.75 claim and acts or omissions surrounding the alleged unfair relationship taking into 
account s.140A separately. 
This is because the basis for the ombudsman service being able to look at these different 
categories of acts or omissions complained of has an important bearing on how I construe 
the events complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) on the six-year time limit, 
notwithstanding that how I construe Mr L’s complaint points is also relevant to my 
consideration of the merits. I have not found it necessary to go on to consider the application 
of the three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) in this matter because in both cases I 
consider the complaint is brought within scope of the six-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a).
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 claim complaint
What are the acts or omissions complained of within our jurisdiction under DISP 2.3.1R?
Where Creation is exercising its rights and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying on a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the ‘RAO’).
The regulated activity in question is that of exercising, or having the right to exercise, the 
lender’s rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement.  The part of those rights and 
duties to which the present complaint relates is the lender’s duty to give Mr L credit for a 
liability allegedly owed to him as borrower, as the complaint alleges that Creation failed to do 
this when it rejected his s.75 claim.  Mr L says that was a valid claim, when he notified it to 
Creation and he complains that Creation should have been accepted it as a liability. So, the 
events complained of are not the alleged representation by A but Creation’s alleged failure to 
accept the s.75 claim which Mr L maintains was valid when made. That is not to say that the 
six-year limitation period for bringing claims for misrepresentation in court is irrelevant.  
Indeed, I find below that the expiry of that limitation period gave Creation justification for 
declining Mr L’s s.75 claim. But that is a point that goes to the merits of Mr L’s complaint 
under s.75, rather than our service’s jurisdiction to investigate it.
Have the events complained of in relation to the s.75 claim been brought in time?
Taking into account what I consider the events complained of are for the purposes of 
DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) – the failure to accept the s.75 claim – I am satisfied Mr L has brought 
that element of his complaint in time where he referred it to the ombudsman service during 
2021 which is within six years of the date Creation failed to accept the s.75 claim (on or 
around June 2020 when Mr L sought to make the s.75 claim). 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship taking into account 
s.140A
What are the acts or omissions complained of within our jurisdiction under DISP 2.3.1R?
Mr L’s complaint points in relation to his allegations of an unfair relationship with Creation 
taking into account s.140A are matters which in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint fall in scope of our jurisdiction to consider regulated activities under Article 60B(1) 
and (2). That is both Creation entering into a regulated credit agreement as lender, and it 
exercising its rights and duties as creditor under a credit agreement.
This is because Mr L’s complaint about an unfair relationship is constituted of several 
complaint points including: 

allegations of misrepresentation by A for which Creation is responsible under s.56 of 
the CCA and which can be considered within scope of our jurisdiction under DISP 
2.3.1R taking into account the guidance in DISP 2.3.3G which states complaints 
about acts or omissions include those for which firms are responsible;

Creation’s provision of the financial service of making restricted-use loans where Mr 
L alleges: 
o
he had not been made aware that Creation had commission on the sale;
o
Creation had failed to ensure A observed the relevant codes at the time of 
sale; and
o
Insufficient credit checks had been carried out.
However, it would be wrong to construe the complaint by reference to the singular acts or 
omissions which Mr L alleges rendered his relationship with Creation unfair. The proper 
construction of an event complained of for the purposes of a complaint about an unfair 
relationship, is that the ‘event’ complained of is the lender’s participation in an unfair 
relationship in having and asserting rights as lender
Therefore, whether the relationship is unfair or not, and for what duration that unfairness has 
persisted, is something I have to consider not only with respect to the merits of the 
complaint, but also for the purposes our jurisdiction under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a). Because of 
this it may be of assistance to read my detailed findings on the merits of the complaint to 
understand why I consider the relationship was likely to be unfair in all the circumstances of 
the complaint for the duration of Mr L’s agreement with Creation when reading my 
summarised version of these findings within this jurisdiction section of this decision. 
Have the events complained of in relation to an unfair relationship taking into account s.140A 
been brought in time?
With reference to the later sections of this decision on the merits of the unfair relationship 
element of the complaint, I have concluded – in summary – that the relationship between 
Creation and Mr L was likely to be unfair taking into account relevant law and evidence 
because I consider that Mr L was induced into entering a contract with Creation by 
misrepresentations of A as to the likely benefits he was going to receive under that contract. 
I further consider that the unfairness caused by that misrepresentation, persisted throughout 
the duration of the agreement with Creation as it caused financial losses which persisted 
until Mr L paid off the loan and his agreement ended. 
In short, where the event complained of is the alleged unfair relationship, and I have found 
that this relationship was unfair and that the unfairness persisted until the end of the 
agreement I consider the six-year period under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) runs from the date the 
agreement ended in 2021.
Mr L referred his complaint to the ombudsman service within the six-year period, and 
therefore it is not necessary for me to go on to consider the three-year rule under DISP 
2.8.2R (2)(b) in the circumstances. 
In reaching this decision on jurisdiction, I have derived assistance from the Court’s approach 
to limitation in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (‘Patel’) where the Court considered 
when the relevant limitation period would run from under the LA in respect of a claim under 
s.140A and found that the debtor’s cause of action under such a claim was “a continuing one 
which accrues from day to day until the relevant relationship ends”.
I have also considered the Court of Appeal’s judgment in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
[2021] EWCA Civ 1832 (‘Smith’) which is currently subject to an appeal in the Supreme 
Court and – at time of writing – has been heard but judgment is yet to be handed down. 
However, that case is not in my view as relevant to circumstances of the complaint I am 
concerned with here, as I am making a finding that the unfairness in the relationship was 
likely to have persisted until Mr L paid off the loan, and – in my view - there are no 
circumstances where it can be concluded unfairness ended at some earlier date. In any 
event, I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the unfair relationship aspect of the 
complaint in the circumstances. 
Merits of the complaint
The relevance of the LA for the purposes of the s.75 claim complaint
In the context of the s.75 claim it is important to consider that if the relevant limitation period 
under the LA had expired for the purposes of a claim against A, any ‘like’ claim under s.75 
against Creation would also be extinguished. The relevant limitation period for a claim based 
on misrepresentation by A in these circumstances would be six years calculated from the 
date when the cause of action accrued and this – in my view – would be when the benefits of 
agreement were misrepresented to Mr L on 2 February 2014.
Based on what I have seen, Mr L raised his s.75 claim with Creation during June 2020, so 
this would be outside the six-year period for the purposes of the LA and therefore I don’t 
consider Creation had to do anything further in relation to his claim in the circumstances. I 
don’t uphold this aspect of Mr L’s complaint on the merits.
Can misrepresentations be considered under s.140A?
 
As I have previously explained, I am required to take into account relevant law to determine 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint and I have considered the 
Court’s approach to considering misrepresentations under s.140A claims to inform my 
approach to the unfair relationship complaint on that basis. 
I have considered Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 (‘Scotland’), 
in which said the following when considering if a misrepresentation could be relevant to an 
unfair relationship claim under s.140A: 
 
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the whole 
relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit agreement 
and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three matters set out in 
s.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor 
before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or 
misleading presentation of relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to 
me to fall squarely within the scope of this provision.”
 
Applying the approach explained in Scotland, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an unfair relationship 
those negotiations and arrangements by A for which Creation were responsible – as per s.56 
of the CCA - when considering whether it is likely the relationship was unfair for the 
purposes of s.140A taking into account what the Court’s approach likely would be.
What happened?
When speaking to our investigator, Mr L said that he was told by the representative of A that 
the benefits of the panels (energy produced and FIT payments) would quickly cover his 
electricity usage, his loan costs and the cash amount he paid. Mr L says he was told the 
system would pay for itself. Mr L also said he paid half of the cost of the panels in cash, as 
he didn’t want to take on a large interest-bearing loan and wanted to keep the cost down. 
I’ve considered Mr L’s account about what happened when he spoke to A. I find this to be 
credible and persuasive. I think it is unlikely that he would’ve agreed to the solar panel 
system and a loan with Creation unless he’d been led to believe that it would be self-funding 
and come at no additional cost to him. 
Creation has not supplied any evidence or reasoning to challenge Mr L’s testimony, and as I 
consider it persuasive, I accept Mr L’s version of events.
The documentation
I’ve gone on to consider the paperwork that has been provided to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
What I am considering is whether or not all the documentation Mr L had access to at the 
time of the sale would have made it evident that, despite what he says he was told, the solar 
panels would not be self-funding. 
In order for him to make an informed decision about the benefits of the panels in relation to 
the overall costs to him he needed to be able to compare the cost of the solar panel system 
to any benefit he may have received or have been promised.
I’ve considered the loan agreement. This is dated 2 February 2014, and sets out, amongst 
other things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, 
the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
I’m satisfied that this is clear. I’ve also considered the contract signed by Mr L and the 
installer on the same date, which includes the following:
 
There’s no explanation here as to how these numbers were calculated and nothing to easily 
enable Mr L to compare these future benefits with the actual cost of the system, including 
the finance. In fact, given the reference to the payback year, and 20-year benefits figure, I 
think this would encourage Mr L to accept what he was told about the panels paying for 
themselves.
Taking the above into account, I consider that the various documents provided to Mr L 
presented in such a way that it would have been difficult for him to make an informed 
decision without relying on what he was told by the representative of A. So, I’m persuaded it 
is reasonable for Mr L to have relied on what he was told when he entered into the contract.
Were the representations made to Mr L untrue statements of fact?
For the solar panels to pay for themselves as Mr L says he was told, they would need to 
cover the costs of the loan and Mr L’s cash payment and produce combined savings and fit 
income of over £1,282.68 a year.  I have not seen anything to indicate Mr L’s system is not 
performing as expected but Mr L’s system has not produced this. So, these representations 
were not true. 
I think the salesman from A would have been aware Mr L’s system would not have produced 
benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, 
the amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr L’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of his panels in the 
timescales stated in the documentation or verbally to Mr L. 
Did the representations induce Mr L to enter into the purchase and loan agreement?
Taking into account Mr L’s testimony about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, I am satisfied that the actions of A’s salesman, acting at that 
time as an agent for Creation, did induce Mr L into entering into a contract that he otherwise 
would not have done. 
The salesman, acting in a position of knowledge about the effectiveness of the panels, would 
have been aware that they would not pay for themselves in way Mr L was led to believe. I’ve 
not seen anything to demonstrate Mr L decided to purchase the solar panel system for 
anything other than the cost savings this would produce for him on his energy bills. And as I 
have found, the system would not actually produce the savings he was led to believe he 
would receive. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
In line with the reasoning above, it follows that if I accept that Mr L was induced into entering 
the contract with Creation due to the misrepresentations made by A, acting as an agent of 
Creation at that point, I consider that a court would be likely to conclude that because of this 
the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair. 
Had Mr L been aware of the actual benefits he was likely to receive from the panels, and that 
they would not pay for themselves until far later than he was led to expect, he would not 
have entered into the contract.  Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual 
benefits, each month he has had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference 
between his solar benefits and the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from 
the interest paid on a loan he would otherwise have not taken out.   
It is clear to me that without the misrepresentations made by Creation’s agent at the point of 
sale, Mr L would not have bought the panels, or entered into the loan contract. Therefore, I 
am persuaded taking into account the Court’s approach that this has caused an unfair 
relationship.
Mr L expected his costs in relation to the panels to be covered by the benefits, but in fact 
each month he has had to pay more than he had made, so Mr L lost out and Creation has 
benefitted. Had Mr L been aware of the true state of affairs, he would not have bought the 
panels or entered into the contract for the loan.
I consider these misrepresentations and the resulting financial cost which persisted until the 
agreement with Creation ended caused the relationship between Mr L and Creation to be 
unfair and that it is likely a court would find it so under s.140A. It follows that I do not 
consider Creation have acted in a fair and reasonable way in all the circumstances of the 
complaint concerning the unfair relationship and, because Mr L has suffered financial losses, 
I consider Mr L’s complaint should be upheld. 
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances of the complaint.
Our approach in these circumstances is to award redress based on putting Mr L into the 
position he would have been but for the unfair relationship which I consider likely existed 
between him and Creation taking into account relevant law when determining what a fair and 
reasonable conclusion to this complaint should be.
I have considered if a full unwind of the agreement, where the panels are removed and Mr L 
is returned all the money paid to the loan, less any benefits received, is suitable redress.  I’m 
mindful that whilst this puts Mr L back to his original position, it’s likely to be a complicated 
and disruptive process and incur considerable expense arranging for the panels to be 
removed, along with any associated work. 
I’ve also borne in mind that Mr L’s complaint is not about any issue with the panels 
themselves, but about the unfairness caused by the misrepresentation of the benefits he 
would receive. 
He believed the panels would pay for themselves. So, I consider it fair to both parties to put 
Mr L into that position. This removes any unfairness to Mr L.    
To achieve this, Creation needs to ensure that the amount Mr L paid for the panels is no 
more than the likely benefits he would have received.  
To do this Creation needs to:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr L made towards 
the solar panel system up until he repaid the loan - A

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until he repaid 
the loan - B

Use B to recalculate what Mr L should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and reimburse Mr L the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement - C

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received for the period 
between the loan being paid off and the original loan term - D

Deduct D from the amount Mr L paid off the loan – E

Calculate 8% interest on E, applied from the date he paid off the loan until the date of 
settlement – F

Reimburse C + F
I also think the way Creation handled Mr L’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £150 is appropriate. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Creation responded on 4 May 2023 after the provisional decision was issued providing a 
copy of a letter dated, but not sent on, 21 April 2023 addressing the view of 20 December 
2022 issued by the investigator. Creation’s letter set out its disagreement with the 
investigator’s position on our jurisdiction, reserved its rights on the merits of the case, and 
asked that we consider a Court case when considering redress in the event we decided we 
could look at the complaint. On 26 May 2023, Creation asked the case be reconsidered in 
the light of its letter, and requested a further provisional decision. 
Mis-Sold Claims Assist, on behalf of Mr L, accepted the provisional decision. 
  
It is important to highlight that in my provisional decision I made the finding that the proper 
construction of an event complained of per DISP 2.8.2R (2) (a) for the purposes of a 
complaint about an unfair relationship, is that the ‘event’ complained of, is the lender’s 
participation in an unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender. That remains 
my finding for the purposes of this final decision. 
However, later in the provisional decision under the section on whether a complaint had 
been brought in time in respect of the unfair relationship element of the complaint I stated, 
“the event complained of is the alleged unfair relationship”. For the avoidance of doubt, I did 
not intend to suggest the event complained of was other than the lender’s participation in an 
unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender, and as per my final decision 
below I do not make the finding that the unfair relationship is the event complained of.
Further, on reflection it was more accurate to title one of my sub-headings in the provisional 
decision “Have the events complained of in relation to an unfair relationship taking into 
account s.140A been brought in time?” as have the events complained of in relation to an 
unfair relationship taking into account s.140A been complained of in time.
I responded to Creation’s further submissions in a letter to both parties on 7 September 
2023.  
Request to issue another provisional decision
I want to make it clear to both parties that my provisional decision was issued following a full 
review of the case file.  Whilst the arguments Creation belatedly made had not been raised 
in this case previously, they have been made on other cases, and I was aware of them. In 
any event, I consider these points are sufficiently addressed in my provisional decision 
taking into account the particular circumstances of Mr L’s complaint. 
While I note Creation wishes to reserve its position on the merits of the case,  the rules and 
guidance on our process under DISP in the FCA Handbook enable me to proceed to 
consideration of a complaint where a respondent fails to comply with a time limit fixed for any 
aspect of the consideration of a complaint, and allow me to reach a decision on the basis of 
what has been supplied while taking into account the failure by a party to provide information 
requested (see DISP 3.5.9R (3), DISP 3.5.13R and DISP 3.5.14R (1)).  Creation has been 
provided a reasonable period of time and several opportunities to respond to the merits of 
the complaint Mr L has brought, and it has declined to do so.  
 
Therefore, I do not consider Creation’s late response to the view to be a good reason to 
delay the complaint’s progression to a final decision. The ombudsman service’s scheme is 
one under which disputes are to be resolved quickly and fairly with minimum formality, and 
DISP 3.5.1R explains that I am required to attempt resolution of complaints at the earliest 
possible stage by whatever means appear to be most appropriate. I am satisfied it is 
appropriate to move to determination of this complaint by a final decision in the 
circumstances.  
 
Approach to redress
Creation also requested that in the event I did consider the merits of the case, I take account 
the High Court judgment in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Ltd [2021] EWHC 2167 
(‘Hodgson’) when looking at redress.
 
Where an ombudsman considers it appropriate to determine a complaint in a complainant’s 
favour and make a money award it is required to consider what constitutes fair 
compensation. However, this has to be considered in light of our statutory scheme to resolve 
complaints quickly and fairly with minimum formality.
Further, under DISP 3.6.4R (1)(a), I am required to take into account relevant law when 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, but as per 
R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642 
(‘Heather Moor’) I am free to depart from relevant law so long as I state I am doing so in my 
decisions and explain why (see paragraph 49 of the Court of Appeal’s judgment in that 
case).
In my provisional decision I consider I have set out a fair way to compensate the consumer 
which is proportionate to the situation. That is, to require that the benefits and income from 
the system are set against the overall costs during the term of the loan. That means that 
there is no overall loss to the consumer as a result of entering the unfair contract. It also 
means that when the unfair relationship ends or was due to end, both parties are left in a fair 
position. 
I have considered the methodology set out in Hodgson. But it does not change my view on 
what amounts to fair redress in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Although I 
accept that a Court may adopt the approach in Hodgson in cases which involve facts which 
are the same or similar to Mr L’s complaint the ombudsman service is not bound to follow 
that approach where it considers its application would produce an outcome which is unfair or 
otherwise inconsistent with the nature of its statutory scheme. 
Therefore, to an extent I accept that Hodgson is likely to be relevant law which I ought to 
take into account in the circumstances of this complaint, but as per Heather Moor it is 
appropriate, I set out my reasons for not following Hodgson in this correspondence. I will 
reiterate any relevant points in my final decision to the extent that may be required.
Hodgson was considering assessment of damages under the Misrepresentation Act 1967
It is important to note that in Hodgson the Court was considering an assessment of damages 
payable by a Defendant under the Misrepresentation Act 1967, and the Court was not 
undertaking an assessment of an appropriate remedy required to address the unfairness of 
a relationship between debtor and creditor under s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the ‘CCA’) as would be the case if Mr L’s complaint were before the Courts. 
It follows that Hodgson is not as relevant to my assessment of fair compensation as Creation 
considers it to be. Where a Court would have a considerable discretionary latitude to remedy 
an unfair relationship under s.140B of the CCA, the ombudsman service considers it has a 
wide latitude in respect of determining what would be a fair remedy in respect of complaints 
involving an unfair relationship taking into account relevant law and the nature of its statutory 
scheme.  
Therefore, I have considered the approach of the Court’s to remedies for unfair relationships. 
In the case of  Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd (t/a Sunny) (In Administration) 
[2020] EWHC 2169 (Comm) (‘Kerrigan’) which relied on dicta in Patel v Patel [2009] 3264 
(QB) (‘Patel’) the Court explained that it must ensure the remedy for an unfair relationship 
reflects and is proportionate to the nature and degree of the unfairness which it has found 
and is not to be analysed “in the sort of linear terms which arise when considering causation 
proper” (see [79] of Patel and [214] of Kerrigan). Further the Court in Kerrigan at [214] 
explained that the remedy should avoid giving:
"…the claimant a windfall, but should approximate, as closely as possible, to the 
overall position which would have applied had the matters giving rise to the perceived 
unfairness not taken place"
In my view, the judgments in Kerrigan and Patel confirm that it would be fair for a Court to 
take a more flexible approach to assessing loss arising from an unfair relationship and would 
not be required to follow the approach in Hodgson which was applying the general principle 
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 that a claimant is to be put in the position that 
they would have been in had the relevant representation not been made. 
I consider the flexible approach set out in Kerrigan aligns with the approach I have adopted 
in my provisional decision to redress, and to the extent it is relevant law (and more relevant 
in my view than Hodgson) I consider it appropriate to take into account for the purposes of 
my decision on what would be fair compensation in Mr L’s complaint.
Hodgson’s approach to deductions and maintenance costs would not produce a fair outcome 
nor would be consistent with our statutory scheme in the circumstances
As per Kerrigan, and because I found in my provisional decision that a Court would likely 
conclude that the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair arising from 
misrepresentations I’ve considered the similarities and differences between my proposed 
redress and that set out in Hodgson in order to establish whether it would be appropriate to 
follow it so as to avoid Mr L receiving a windfall while considering whether its application 
would, as closely as possible, achieve a result whereby Mr L is put in a position which would 
have applied had the matters giving rise to the unfair relationship not taken place. 
By way of summary, in Hodgson the judge effectively made Mr Hodgson’s panels self-
funding, by accounting for deductions in four stages –
Stage one – The benefits received up until the point the case was decided upon 
Stage two – The benefits from the point the case was decided upon to the end of the loan 
Stage three – The benefits from the term of the loan to the 20th anniversary of installation, 
with a 40% deduction applied. As the judge felt the likelihood of Mr Hodgson benefitting from 
the solar panels, for all or part of this period, was reduced due to his age.
Stage four – a 100% deduction was applied to the benefits from the 20th anniversary of 
installation to the 25th (which the judge considered to be the whole lifetime of the panels), 
because he didn’t think Mr Hodgson would benefit from the panels at all in this period of time 
due to his age. 
The redress I am proposing is in line with Hodgson in respect of stages one and two but 
deviates from that point onward for several reasons.
In relation to stages three and four, the judge decided deductions based on the age the 
average man, the same age as Mr Hodgson, would die. Whilst I understand the judge’s 
approach, I am conscious no evidence of Mr Hodgson’s health was taken into account.  If I 
were to apply the Court’s approach at the ombudsman service, which has an inquisitorial 
remit, I consider such evidence would need to be taken into account (or at least requested) 
on every complaint, as individual health factors could significantly reduce a consumer’s life 
expectancy, and the average deduction could be lower than it actually needs to be. I’m not 
aware of Mr L’s medical history, but in order to determine whether or not an average 
reduction would be fair in the particular circumstances of the complaint I would need to 
engage in substantial data gathering and analysis.
As previously explained, I must be mindful of the nature of the ombudsman service’s 
scheme to be a quick and fair dispute resolution service which has minimum formality. Any 
consideration of deductions for future contingencies (such as on the basis of the risk of 
mortality by reference to age and health) as part of an assessment of the losses suffered by 
a complainant following Hodgson would require what I consider would be disproportionately 
complex submissions on the amount of compensation which ought to be awarded or how it 
should be calculated which would be contrary to the minimum formality of the ombudsman 
service’s scheme and its purpose to quickly and fairly resolve disputes. To that end it would 
appear inappropriate to adopt the approach in Hodgson to deductions as described above in 
the circumstances. 
Another reason why I do not consider it appropriate to follow Hodgson in Mr L’s complaint is 
that the judge did not deduct an amount for the maintenance and upkeep of the panels. He 
discussed the replacement of the inverter, however he didn’t know the cost, and suspected 
that it wouldn’t be a considerable amount. Our service has previously seen this issue raised 
on multiple cases, and the energy saving trust website sets out it is likely that the inverter will 
need to be replaced within the lifetime of the panels. 
The energy saving trust website also states that panels should be cleaned to ensure optimal 
performance. So, I am satisfied that maintenance costs are likely if Mr L wants to receive the 
full benefits from his panels.  In summary where Hodgson makes a deduction for the benefits 
of the panels over their lifetime but makes no allowance for likely costs I consider it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to award compensation which would put Mr L, so far as is 
possible, in a ‘cost-neutral’ position such that he is not put in a position whereby he will be 
unable to meet unexpected financial costs arising from the solar panel system in future 
where that would – in my view – lead to a continuation of unfairness arising out of the unfair 
relationship. 
Mr L entered the relationship with Creation on the basis that once the loan was repaid, from 
that point onwards any benefits would then accrue to him, and I don’t think it’s unreasonable 
for him to expect this, nor do I think these benefits amount to a windfall as Kerrigan suggests 
is to be avoided when considering a remedy for an unfair relationship. When a consumer 
takes out a loan to pay for goods over a certain period and the loan is repaid, it is entirely 
reasonable for that consumer to enjoy the benefits of their purchase in the years after the 
loan is repaid. These benefits will also cover the ongoing costs associated with the upkeep 
of the panels, meaning he won’t be left out of pocket. 
Creation have failed to explain how applying Hodgson would produce a fairer outcome and 
has failed to engage on the merits of the complaint generally
While the ombudsman service’s remit is inquisitorial, as per our procedural rules on 
evidence in DISP I can also take into account that Creation have so far failed to properly 
engage with the ombudsman service about the merits of the complaint to explain the 
particular aspects of the methodology in Hodgson which it considers ought to be taken into 
account with reference to any evidence or submissions it has, and why the ombudsman 
service’s methodology for redress as set out in its provisional decision would be unfair in the 
circumstances of Mr L’s complaint.  
I asked each party to let me have any further information that they’d like me to consider by 
14 September 2023. 
Mis-sold Claims Assist confirmed they had nothing further to add.
Creation requested an extension of time of seven days which I granted in the circumstances, 
but it failed to respond by 21 September 2023 in any event. As per our service’s procedural 
rules at DISP 3.5.9R (3) and 3.5.14R (1) I am entitled to reach a decision based on the 
information which has been supplied by the parties so far and can proceed with my 
consideration of the complaint where Creation has failed to respond by the deadline I set for 
providing further information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m satisfied that 

Mr L brought his complaint about Creation’s failure to accept the s.75 claim, and an 
unfair relationship in accordance with s.140A of the CCA, in time with reference to 
our jurisdiction rules on time limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8. 

In relation to the s.75 claim element of the complaint, Mr L has brought this in time 
where he complained within six years of the date when Creation failed to accept that 
claim.

However, it was fair for Creation not to accept the s.75 claim on the basis that the 
claim against Creation under s.75 is likely to have been extinguished where the 
relevant limitation period for a claim against A for misrepresentation is likely to have 
expired taking into account the LA. Therefore, I do not uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.

In relation to the s.140A unfair relationship element of the complaint, the event 
complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) was the lender’s participation in 
an unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender. Further, in 
circumstances where I consider the unfair relationship to have ended when the 
agreement between Mr L and Creation came to an end and taking into account the 
approach of the Court’s to limitation periods under the LA to the extent appropriate, I 
am satisfied Mr L brought this aspect of his complaint within six years of the event 
complained of. 

The representations made to Mr L when he entered into the contract to buy the 
panels were false and mis-leading and induced him to enter into the contract. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that a court would likely conclude that due the 
misrepresentations made by A (acting as agent of Creation) a court would be likely to 
conclude the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair under s.140A. It 
follows that I do not consider Creation have acted in a fair and reasonable way in all 
the circumstances of the complaint concerning the unfair relationship and uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. 

I have considered the redress methodology applied by the courts in the case of 
Hodgson but do not consider it is appropriate to apply it to this case for the reasons 
which I provided in my correspondence of 7 September 2023 as incorporated into 
this final decision.   
 

It is appropriate for Creation to work out the likely benefits of the solar panels over a 
period of 10 years, based on actual date where available and estimations where not, 
and ensure that Mr L pays no more than that. 
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from those findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Creation to 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr L made towards 
the solar panel system up until he repaid the loan - A

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until he repaid 
the loan - B

Use B to recalculate what Mr L should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and reimburse Mr L the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement - C

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received for the period 
between the loan being paid off and the original loan term - D

Deduct D from the amount Mr L paid off the loan – E

Calculate 8% interest on E, applied from the date he paid off the loan until the date of 
settlement – F

Reimburse C + F
I also think the way Creation handled Mr L’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £150 is appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman
