 
 
DRN-5304419 
 
 
The complaint 
 
The estate of Mr S complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (Creation) response 
to its claim brought under section 75 Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened 
In December 2014 Mr S purchased solar panels from a supplier I’ll call M for £9,105. He paid 
a deposit of £100 and the remainder was financed with a fixed sum loan from Creation which 
was entered into in January 2015. 
Creation’s notes say that in March 2021 Mr S brought a claim to Creation saying the solar 
panels had been mis-sold to him by M. He said he signed up to buy them before he even 
knew what he’d agreed to, was not in the process of looking for solar panels and had 
received no benefit from them. 
Sadly, Mr S passed away later in 2021. The complaint was taken on by his estate. Creation 
treated the claim as a complaint and issued a final response letter in November 2021. It said 
the complaint had been brought more than six years after the sale of the solar panels so 
considered it had been referred out of time under the regulator’s complaint handling rules. 
Dissatisfied with this, the estate of Mr S referred its complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2025 explaining why I didn’t plan to uphold the 
complaint. I said the following: 
 
“S.75 complaint 
Creditors have no means of knowing what s.75 liabilities they may have, nor of 
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until 
debtors raise s.75 claims against them; and raising the claim, if it’s a valid one, brings 
the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability. 
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s.75 claims 
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the 
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they 
become time barred. 
Based on the alleged misrepresentations, the cause of action in this case arose 
when an agreement was entered into in January 2015. The alleged breach of 
contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that M (acting on behalf of Creation) 
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance 
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of 
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into. 
In these circumstances Mr S had brought his s.75 claim to Creation in March 2021 
which is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with it in January 
 
 
2015.  
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of 
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, as appears to be the case here, I am 
persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for Creation to decline the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Unfair relationship complaint 
The estate of Mr S is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between 
it and Creation per s.140A CCA. The event complained of is Creation’s participation, 
for so long as the credit relationship continues, in an allegedly unfair relationship with 
it. The credit relationship continues in this case as the obligations to repay under the 
loan agreement sit with the estate of Mr S now. 
I can consider representations and contractual promises by M when considering a 
complaint about an unfair relationship between Mr S and Creation. s.56 of the CCA 
has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent 
negotiations, and so Creation is responsible for the antecedent negotiations M 
carried out direct with Mr S. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an unfair relationship 
those negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation was responsible under 
s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably 
toward the estate of Mr S. 
When speaking to our investigator the representative of Mr S’s estate said Mr S 
wouldn’t have understood how to get money from the solar panels (such as how to 
claim FiT payments) to pay for the loan and this was never explained to him by M. He 
said he doesn’t believe Mr S would have bought the solar panels if he’d been told the 
monthly benefits generated would not meet the loan repayments over the course of 
the loan agreement. 
I’ve looked first at the paperwork the estate of Mr S has provided to see if it was 
made clear what benefits the solar panels would generate and how these would 
compare with the monthly loan repayments. It’s clear from the loan agreement how 
much Mr S was borrowing, what the monthly repayments would be and how long 
he’d have to make them for.  
What’s not so clear from the paperwork is what benefits the solar panels would 
generate and how they measured up against the loan repayments. A document titled 
‘estimated returns’ gives an ‘estimated year 1 benefit’ a ‘total estimated 20 year FiT 
benefit’ a ‘total estimated 25 year energy savings benefit’ and a ‘total lifetime PV 
system benefit’. While its fairly clear from this the benefits in year one would not be 
as much as the total loan repayments in that year, the rest of the estimates all appear 
to use different metrics, and I don’t find the estimate provides information in a clear 
enough way that would at the very least have enabled Mr S to work out the estimated 
benefits himself so he could measure these against the monthly loan repayments 
over the life of the agreement. 
It seems likely therefore that Mr S would have needed to rely on what he was told 
about the solar panels by the representative of M to get a good understanding of the 
benefits of the panels over the course of the loan agreement. 
 
 
The investigator thought it was unlikely Mr S would have bought the solar panels if 
he’d been told they wouldn’t be self-funding over the course of his loan as the loan 
repayments would have significantly increased his monthly outgoings and he wasn’t 
looking for solar panels when M contacted him. So, he thought Mr S must have been 
told that they were self-funding. However, I haven’t reached that same conclusion. 
Most of the testimony that has been provided about what Mr S was told is that of the 
representative of the estate and not Mr S. And sadly, it’s impossible to get Mr S’s 
testimony now that he has passed away. As a result, (and entirely understandable in 
the circumstances) the available testimony is not particularly rich in detail and relies 
quite heavily on what the representative considers Mr S would or wouldn’t have 
agreed to. Because of this however I’m not able to give the kind of weight to the 
available testimony that I would if it had come directly from Mr S. This poses 
significant challenges to the estate of Mr S’s complaint as it essentially hinges on 
what Mr S was or was not most likely told about the benefits of the solar panels. 
I appreciate the representative of Mr S’s estate has said he was not tech savvy and 
would not have understood how to claim things like FiT payments. I don’t think it 
automatically follows however that M didn’t explain how to register for these 
payments - even if as appears to be the case, Mr S did not indeed register for them. 
Again, without direct testimony from Mr S it’s very difficult to know what he would or 
would not have been told in this respect. 
Overall, I’ve not seen enough in this particular case to persuade me on the balance 
of probabilities that Mr S would have been told the benefits of the solar panels would 
have paid for the loan repayments over the course of the loan agreement or that 
things such as claiming FiT payments were not explained to him. It therefore seems 
unlikely to me that the estate of Mr S’s relationship with Creation is unfair as a result 
of a misrepresentation or contractual promise made by M to Mr S when the solar 
panels were sold to him. Creation does (not*) therefore need to do anything in 
respect of the estate of Mr S’s complaint. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to the representative of Mr S’s estate in the 
circumstances.” 
*my correction 
Creation agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.  
The estate of Mr S did not agree. It said in summary: 
• 
Its complaint is mostly about M rather than Creation and how it sold the solar panels 
to Mr S.  
• 
It believes it started the complaints process much earlier than stated in my 
provisional decision.  
The complaint has therefore been passed back to me for a final decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve very carefully considered the comments provided by the estate of Mr S in response to 
 
 
my provisional decision. I appreciate it believes its complaint rests more with M. However, as 
the estate has identified, M is no longer trading so it cannot refer a complaint about it to this 
service. It would likely have run into difficulties with time limits in any event in the 
circumstances.  
My consideration of this complaint is therefore limited to Creation’s acts and omissions in 
respect of the complaint that has been brought, which I laid out in the headings in the extract 
of my provisional decision above.  
I’ve examined Creation’s record of contact with Mr S and his estate. There is no record of a 
complaint having been made any earlier that March 2021. I’ve seen no other persuasive 
evidence that one was referred to Creation any sooner than this. My findings in respect of 
the estate’s claim under s.75 therefore remain that Creation did not unreasonably decline to 
meet it – the estate having notified Creation of its claim more than six years after its cause of 
action.  
I’ve also seen no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision about 
the fairness of the credit relationship. As I explained therein, the complaint turns largely on 
what happened when M sold the solar panels to Mr S in 2015. The available paperwork did 
not guarantee that the benefits the solar panels were expected to generate would pay for the 
loan repayments on the loan agreement. So, testimony as to what was explained to Mr S by 
M at the time is key.  It’s very unlikely that Creation would have been able to obtain 
testimony from M because it ceased trading. And sadly, Mr S is unable to give testimony 
either. I haven’t found the representative of the estate’s recollections or suggestions 
persuasive enough on their own to conclude the solar panels were mis-sold to Mr S. He 
wasn’t present when the pre-contract negotiations took place and the recollections are not 
sufficiently detailed.   
It remains my decision therefore that Creation need not do anything in respect of the estate 
of Mr S’s complaint.  
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2025. 
  
 
Michael Ball 
Ombudsman 
 
