DRN-4653540
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable credit account. He’s said that the credit limit he was given 
was not affordable.
Background
Mr W was provided with a credit account, with a credit limit of £2,500.00 in November 2016. 
There were no credit limit increases provided to Mr W.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W and Creation had told us. And he thought that 
Creation didn’t do anything wrong when providing Mr W with his credit account. So he didn’t 
uphold Mr W’s complaint. 
Mr W disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr W’s complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I’m not upholding Mr W’s complaint. I’ll 
explain why in a bit more detail.
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
could afford to repay before providing her with a credit card.
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit account Mr W was provided with had a credit limit of £2,500.00. And as this was a 
revolving credit facility, Creation was required to understand whether Mr W could repay 
around £2,500.00 within a reasonable period of time. A credit limit of this amount required 
reasonable – but not excessive - monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Creation says that it would have asked Mr W to confirm his income and that it carried out a 
credit check. It says that Mr W declared that earned between £25,000.00 and £30,000.00 
and the while credit checks carried out showed that Mr W had some existing credit 
commitments, he would still have had the funds to make the required payments. 
Mr W disputes this and says that he had a significant amount of existing credit which already 
meant that he owed. Furthermore he’s provided us with information which shows that he 
started having difficulties with credit after the facility was provided.  
I’ve carefully thought about what the parties have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
I’ve not been provided with clear evidence that Mr W did have significant difficulties with 
credit in 2016. It’s possible this is the case, but the lack of information, which is not 
unreasonable given the time that’s passed, means that I cannot reasonably conclude that 
this was more likely than not.
Nonetheless given the limit provided and Mr W’s existing credit commitments, I do think that 
there is an argument to say that Creation ought to have done more to ascertain Mr W’s 
actual regular living costs. That said, I don’t think that Creation obtaining further information 
on Mr W’s actual living costs, would have made a difference to its decision to lend in this 
instance. 
I say this because having looked at copies of the bank statements for the accounts Mr W 
has provided, I can’t see anything within them which clearly demonstrates that obtaining 
further information on Mr W’s living costs will have clearly shown that he did not have the 
funds to make the monthly repayments required to clear the balance on this account within a 
reasonable period of time. 
 
Mr W has put together a detailed breakdown of his finances using statements from various 
accounts and facilities. I also accept that it’s possible that Mr W’s circumstances were worse 
than it appears. For example, it looks like Mr W fell into difficulties making payments to a 
number of his accounts a while down the line. 
But I don’t think that this it would have been proportionate to carry out checks with the level 
of granularity Mr W is now applying to his finances at the time, considering he was only 
being provided with a credit account with a maximum limit of £2,500.00. This level of forensic 
analysis would only really be expected for much higher amounts of credit. So I don’t think 
that Creation would have known about most of what Mr W has referred to. And bearing this 
in mind, I can’t reasonably say that further checks into Mr W’s living expenses would have 
prevented Creation from providing this credit account to him. 
I’d also add that it’s only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I don’t think that Creation did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr W – having considered the information Mr W has 
provided, I don’t think this information would have made a difference to Creation’s decision. 
So overall I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to provide this credit account to        
Mr W.
As this is the case, I’m not upholding Mr W’s complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope he’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that he’ll 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mr W’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
