DRN-3175969
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Creation initially accepted our adjudicators view and made an offer to settle the complaint. 
But Mr A didn’t accept Creations offer as he didn’t feel Creation had correctly carried out the 
redress calculation and therefore hadn’t fully compensated him for his losses. Our 
adjudicator asked Creation to check its offer, as she also felt it didn’t appear to be in line with 
our established approach. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
As Creation has agreed in principle with the merits of this complaint and offered to put things 
right in line with our established approach, my decision will mainly focus on the matter left in 
dispute- i.e. the redress figures quoted by Creation. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
As explained above, our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld. Creation responded 
to the adjudicators view, accepted her findings and agreed in principle to put things right in 
the way our adjudicator set out. It said Mr A had settled the loan early, so it offered to pay 
Mr A the difference between what he paid in total to settle the loan, and what the loan should 
have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest
However, its redress calculation showed that Mr A had settled the loan early by making a 
payment far less than what was due under the original agreement, and what was due under 
the restructure above – this meant the no further redress was now due to him. Mr A agreed 
he’d settled the loan early, but not for the amounts cited by Creation. Our adjudicator asked 
for Creation to evidence how much Mr A had paid to settle the loan, but Creation didn’t 
respond so the case was passed to me.  
Having carefully considered what Creation and Mr A have said, I think that Creation didn’t 
treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. In principle, I agree with Creation’s offer of putting things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to 
Mr A from the solar panels over the term 5 year term of the loan – so he pays no more than 
that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr A accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr A by way of explanation with evidence where appropriate. 
I say this because while Creation says Mr A settled the loan early, it hasn’t evidenced how 
much Mr A Settled the loan for, or explained why it accepted such a small amount to 
discharge the agreement. According to the figures cited by Creation, it said that My A settled 
the loan by paying an amount significantly less than what was due for the solar panel system 
even without interest being charged. 
And as mentioned above, Creation has offered no explanation as to why it would’ve 
accepted such a small payment amount in full and final settlement of the agreement. We’ve 
asked Creation to explain and evidence the figures it has cited but it hasn’t responded to our 
requests. 
So, I think Creations needs to review its offer of redress again, and explain with evidence, 
how much (if any) is now due to Mr A. 
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having reviewed everything both parties have submitted, I think Creation needs to pay Mr A 
the difference between what he actually paid in total to settle the loan and what the loan 
should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest. And Creation needs to 
evidence how much Mr A paid to settle the loan. 
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our established approach. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr A’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
