 
 
DRN-4936857 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G says Creation Financial Services Ltd irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable 
credit account.  
What happened 
Mr G was provided with a credit account, with a credit limit of £1,500, in January 2018. This  
account allowed Mr G to purchase goods from a particular retailer up to the value of his  
credit limit as and when he wished to. When he opened the account he made an initial 
purchase for £1,078 which had monthly repayments of £59.14 over 24 months. 
 
Mr G says he could not afford this credit and it has impacted his physical and mental health. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr G and Creation had told us. And she didn’t  
uphold Mr G’s complaint. Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman’s decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr G’s complaint. Having  
carefully considered everything provided, I’m not upholding Mr G’s complaint. I’ll explain 
why. 
 
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is  
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr G  
could afford to repay before providing him with a credit account. 
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks  
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less  
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the  
early stages of a lending relationship. 
 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
 
The credit account Mr G was provided with had a credit limit of £1,500. And as this was a  
revolving credit facility, Creation was required to understand whether Mr G could repay  
around £1,500 within a reasonable period of time.  
 
Creation says that it would have asked Mr G to confirm his income and that it carried out a  
credit check. It has said that Mr G declared that an annual income of £70,000 and the credit 
check showed that Mr G had little in the way of existing debt (£1,570) so he had the 
 
 
disposable income to afford this credit.  
 
Mr G disputes this and says that his only income was from benefits. However, Mr G has 
been unable to provide bank statements to substantiate this. He says he opened this 
account to buy goods he could then sell to generate income. And the £70,000 on his 
application form was clearly a ‘typo’. He says the credit report he has sent in shows he had a 
lot of borrowing at the time. He flags that in the year he took out this borrowing he defaulted 
on two other accounts. However, what he’s provided to us shows that he started opening 
more accounts and having difficulties with credit after this facility had already been provided.  
 
I’ve carefully thought about what the parties have said. As the investigator concluded, I think 
Creation ought to have verified Mr G’s income and also considered his outgoings before 
lending given the value of the opening limit. Mr G is unable to provide us with bank 
statements from the time which is how we typically assess what an income and expenditure 
check would most likely have shown the lender. It’s possible his income was not as he 
stated on the application form, but the lack of information on Mr G’s part means I cannot 
reasonably conclude this was more likely than not. 
 
And whilst I can see Mr G went on to have problems making repayments on two other 
accounts this isn’t information that Creation’s credit check would have shown given the 
timings involved.  
 
We are an evidence-based service so this means, based on the available information, I 
cannot fairly conclude Creation was wrong to lend to Mr G. Mr G has raised that another 
complaint has been upheld by this service but we consider each complaint on its individual 
merits and there are a number of reasons the outcomes for one customer can vary - such as 
(but not limited to) the type of credit, the value of the credit, the date of the application and 
their financial position at that time, and the term of the agreement. 
 
I’ve also considered whether the relationship might have been unfair under Section140A of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, for the reasons I’ve already given, I don’t think 
Creation lent irresponsibly to Mr G or otherwise treated him unfairly in relation to this matter. 
I haven’t seen anything to suggest that Section 140A would, given the facts of this complaint, 
lead to a different outcome here.  
 
Finally, Mr G also said he was unhappy with the support he received when he needed 
assistance with his repayments. If a borrower is finding it hard to make their contractual 
repayments and notifies the lender, the lender must take reasonable measures to assist the 
consumer. There are a range of options that can be considered.  
 
Creation said arrangements were put in place to assist Mr G. From Creation’s contact notes, 
I can see that it offered Mr G a payment plan on 24 May 2019 and 30 September 2019. I 
therefore think Creation acted fairly and reasonably in this regard as it took steps to assist 
Mr G when he experienced financial difficulties. 
 
I am sorry that Mr G has struggled in the way he has described. I hope he now has the 
support he needs. StepChange (tel: 0330 055 2198) and MIND (tel: 0300 123 3393) are 
organisations that can provide free assistance, with debt management and mental health 
respectively, if not. 
 
My final decision 
I am not upholding Mr G’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
 
 
reject my decision before 30 August 2024. 
  
 
Rebecca Connelley 
Ombudsman 
 
