DRN-2771908
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited will not compensate him for 
defective goods he bought with a loan that it provided. 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr C obtained a loan from Creation to assist in the purchase of a sofa set from 
a retailer, which I’ll call S.
In May 2018 Mr C contacted S to say that one of the sofas was sagging on one side. 
Creation arranged an inspection. The inspection report concluded that the problem Mr C had 
reported was consistent with use over time. That is, there was no manufacturing defect. It 
said too that an internal inspection showed no broken spring or frame issues. S declined Mr 
C’s claim for compensation. 
Mr C also referred the matter to Creation. It said that it could not assist because the sofa had 
been delivered to a relative of Mr C and that he was not therefore its owner. It said it 
therefore had no liability under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He did 
not agree with Creation’s arguments about whether section 75 could apply to this case. He 
was not persuaded however that the sofa had been faulty. The inspection report had 
concluded that any damage was the result of wear and tear, rather than a manufacturing 
fault. 
Mr C arranged a further and repairs costing in excess of £400. The repairers noted that the 
sofa’s frame was damaged and that additional screws had been fitted; it was not clear 
however whether that had been done when the sofa was made or at some later date.
The investigator reviewed the case in light of this further information but was not persuaded 
that he should change his opinion. There was no persuasive evidence to show when the 
fault developed. Mr C did not accept the investigator’s view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ll deal first with Creation’s submissions about section 75. One effect of section 75 of The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where an individual buys goods from a supplier using 
credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that 
individual can bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in 
the same way he could against the supplier. The supplier here was S and Creation was the 
lender. 
Creation says however that section 75 cannot apply because Mr C was not the buyer of the 
goods. It says that because the sofa set was not delivered to and was not kept at Mr C’s 
address; he was not its owner. That is, in my view, a mistaken interpretation. The necessary 
condition as between Mr C and S is that he has a claim for breach of contract against S. For 
that to apply, he must have a contract with S. That is not something however that can be 
determined merely by the location of the sofa set or by its ownership. It depends on Mr C’s 
dealings with S. I have however seen nothing to suggest that S dealt with anyone other than 
Mr C when it sold the sofa set. It appears therefore that S’s contract was with Mr C.
I must therefore consider whether Mr C has a claim for breach of contract against S. His 
contract with S was to be read as including a term that the sofa set would be of satisfactory 
quality, which includes such matters as durability. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of 
the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
In this case, Mr C reported problems with one of the sofas about two years after it was 
supplied. An inspection report concluded that the problems were the result of wear and tear, 
not of any manufacturing defect. The report also referred to an internal inspection showing 
no broken springs or frame issues. That suggests that the inspection was reasonably 
thorough. 
A much more recent inspection, carried out nearly five years after supply, does show 
damage to the sofa’s frame. Photographs of the damage show a partial repair, although, as 
the investigator noted, it is not clear whether that was done later or to cover a manufacturing 
error. Given however that the first inspection concluded that there were no frame issues in 
May 2018, I am not persuaded that the sofa was defective at delivery. It is more likely that 
the faults identified were the result of wear and tear. 
It follows that the sofa was of satisfactory quality and that Creation is not liable to Mr C for 
the cost of repairs.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr C’s complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
