DRN-3494227
The complaint
Mr W complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) didn’t agree to a second 
Covid-related payment deferral when his first came to an end. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them here. 
Instead, I’ll focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had a running credit account with Creation. Mr W’s finances were impacted by the 
pandemic so in January 2021 he asked Creation for support. Creation agreed a three-month 
Covid-related payment deferral, meaning he wouldn’t need to make any payments until 
April 2021 and his credit file wouldn’t be adversely impacted. I find Creation treated Mr W 
fairly here as he asked for support, and he got it. And what he got was in line with guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).
In April 2021 Mr W’s situation hadn’t improved so he asked Creation for a second 
three-month payment deferral. Mr W’s request was declined as Creation didn’t think he was 
eligible. The relevant guidance can be found on the FCA’s website, but for ease I’ll include 
the relevant sections below:
“1.8 Eligible customers seeking a first payment deferral, and those eligible customers who 
have previously accessed payment deferrals that totalled less than 6 months under this 
guidance, can seek a new payment deferral up to 31 March 2021. 
1.9 We expect firms to extend ongoing payment deferrals under this guidance after 
31 March 2021 to cover payments up to and including July 2021 provided these deferrals 
cover consecutive payments and a customer is otherwise eligible for a further payment 
deferral. This means that firms should not give payment deferrals under this guidance to 
customers after 31 March 2021 unless they are already benefitting from one at the time they 
are being considered for an extension.
2.1 Subject to the limitations in paragraphs 2.2 to 2.4 [these aren’t applicable here]: 

a firm should regard a customer who is experiencing, or reasonably expects to 
experience, payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus 
as eligible for a payment deferral; but

after 31 March 2021, a firm should only regard a customer as eligible for a further 
payment deferral if it would cover payments that are consecutive with those deferred 
under a previous one granted under this guidance.”
Creation considers Mr W ineligible for a second payment deferral because he asked for it 
after 31 March 2021. I can see why it reached this conclusion. I have, however, reached a 
different conclusion. 
Mr W was already benefitting from a payment deferral when he made his request, meaning 
the second payment deferral would cover payments that were consecutive to those deferred 
under a previous payment deferral. I also note the guidance says payment deferrals could 
cover payments to 31 July 2021. If no payment deferrals could be agreed after 
31 March 2021 - as Creation suggests - no payment deferral could last beyond the end of 
June 2021. 
I’m satisfied the intention of the guidance was for someone in Mr W’s position to be eligible 
for a second payment deferral. So I’m satisfied Mr W has lost out because Creation declined 
his request. This includes, but isn’t limited to: an additional strain on Mr W’s finances (and 
the impact that entailed), the need to pursue the matter with Creation and likely an adverse 
impact on his credit file as he couldn’t afford the April 2021 payment.
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
-
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr W’s credit file for the duration of 
what should have been two consecutive three-month payment deferrals; and
 
-
pay Mr W £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman
