 
 
DRN-3944985 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs A has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mrs A has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs A throughout.  
 
Mrs A told us that a fault has developed with the installation which has not been resolved. 
Our investigator could not see whether issues with the quality of the installation and losses 
flowing from this had been raised with Creation and concluded this was a new matter which 
would first need to be put to Creation for consideration before this service can consider it. I 
agree. This decision will not consider that aspect of the complaint Mrs A has brought to this 
Service.  
 
Whilst the complaint has been set up as a joint complaint, as the invoice and loan 
agreement were in Mrs A’s name, I have referred to her mostly in the decision. 
 
What happened 
On 31 July 2015, Mrs A agreed to a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation for a solar panel 
system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M”. The loan amount was for £9,975 and 
the total amount payable under the agreement was £15,474 and it was due to be paid 
back with 120 monthly repayments of £128.95. 
 
Mrs A complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs A on 4 March 2022. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 16 June 2022. Creation considered Mrs A had brought her 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on 
dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation 
Act (‘LA’). Mrs A brought her complaint to this service on 22 August 2022 as she was 
unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs A asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs A’s complaint, she ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs A and 
Creation.  
 
 
On 18 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs A keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs A had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
As Creation did not respond to that assessment, the case was progressed to the next 
stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs A’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs A’s s.75 
claim on 16 June 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs A brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 
August 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs A. Here the relationship 
came to an end when the loan was repaid. Mrs A told us that the loan was still being 
repaid when the complaint came to us in August 2022. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
 
 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
A.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs A has said that she was cold called by M who told her that the cost of the system 
would be fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity she would receive and the 
savings she would make. Mrs A told us she wasn’t thinking about solar panels until she 
was approached by M.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs A to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs A on 31 July 2015, sets out Mrs A’s responsibilities for 
repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mrs A’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs A to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs A would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision. 
 
As mentioned above, Mrs A told us that M told her the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off the cost of the loan. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs A’s 
testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I 
have noted that Creation has not responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs A said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mrs A left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £128.95, payable for 10 years. Given her lack of prior interest and 
the financial burden she took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mrs A’s account of what she was told by M to be credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had she not been given the reassurances Mrs A said she received 
from M.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,547.40 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
A’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs A’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments. The evidence suggests the solar system was not 
self-funding. 
 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs A’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs A’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs A. 
 
 
 
Considering Mrs A’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs A a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs A’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs A was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs A went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs A’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs A in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs A and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Creation received Mr A’s s.75 complaint on 16 June 2022. Given my findings above I’m 
not proposing to provide a detailed analysis of his s.75 complaint and also his other 
s.140A complaint points. This doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances, and I’m mindful   the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality. 
 
Putting things right 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs A and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs A a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs A’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Creation told us in other cases that it considers our approach to redress should be in 
accordance with the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
[2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
 
 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs A’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mrs A has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs 
A. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs A received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs A received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs A may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available.  
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs A 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs A made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs A’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and 
assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 10 year loan 
period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs A should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs A.  
• 
Give Mrs A the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments. 
• 
Pay Mrs A an additional £100. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr and Mrs A’s complaint. I intend to require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed 
above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
 
 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
