 
 
DRN-5098821 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs P complains about a credit agreement she took out with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
in relation to some home energy improvements. More specifically, that Creation did not 
accept her claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act. 
What happened 
In June 2014 Mrs P entered into a Green Deal arrangement with a company I shall refer to 
as H. It was agreed that Mrs P would receive solid wall insulation and solar panels. The total 
price for all of these new items was £15,000 and this was to be funded mostly through a 
Green Deal loan and a loan with Creation. The remaining amount of approximately £5,008 
appears to have been funded by Mrs P selling the rights to the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments 
that would be generated through the solar panels.  
Mrs P is represented in her complaint but for ease I have referred to all submissions from 
Mrs P and her representative as if made by Mrs P. Mrs P has said that she was told the 
Gren Deal arrangement would be fully self-funded and the new items would therefore not 
actually cost her anything. Mrs P believes the arrangement was misrepresented to her as it 
has actually cost her money and the arrangement has not been self-funding as she was told.  
Mrs P believes she has valid claims under s.75 and s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act and 
is unhappy that Creation has not upheld her claims.  
Creation did not consider that Mrs P had submitted her claims in time and it believes this 
complaint is outside the time limits permitted in the FCA’s DISP Rules.  
The complaint was referred to our service, where it was considered by an investigator. In 
summary, the investigator found that when considering s.75 and the Limitations Act, Mrs P’s 
s.75 claim is likely to be time barred as it was made too late. This was because Mrs P had 
submitted her claim more than 6 years from the date she had entered into the loan 
agreement and suffered a loss.  
The investigator set out how the limitation period in relation to a s.140A claim starts from 
when the relationship between the parties ended and as the relationship is ongoing, Mrs P’s 
claim under s.140A has been made in time as it was made within six years of the credit 
agreement ending in 2017.  
The investigator found that Mrs P’s complaint about misrepresentation can be considered 
under s.140A, through s.56 Consumer Credit Act as H was acting as Creation’s agent when 
negotiating the provisions of the loan and the sale of energy efficient measures. When 
considering the evidence presented in this case, which included the requirements of the 
‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme, there had been a misrepresentation to Mrs P. 
And that Mrs P had relied on that misrepresentation when deciding to enter into the contract 
with H, and she had suffered a financial loss as a result of this.  
The investigator upheld Mrs P’s complaint and set out what Creation should now do to put 
things right.  
 
 
Mrs P accepted what the investigator had set out and proposed. Creation did not. Creation 
continued to dispute the date of the event complained about, referring again to the time the 
credit agreement was taken out. Creation also referred to the High Court decision in 
Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”) 
and that it considers this to be more appropriate redress when determining redress in solar 
panel mis-selling claims.  
As the complaint could not be resolved informally, it was referred to me for consideration. I 
set out my provisional decision on 9 October 2024 explaining why I consider the complaint 
should be upheld and what should now be done to put things right. In my decision I set out 
the following:  
The Green Deal 
 
Before I set out my findings in this case I think it will be helpful to include some further details 
of the Green Deal scheme and in particular the ‘Golden Rule’.  
 
The energy efficient measures that Mrs P entered into with H were through the government 
Green Deal initiative. It will be helpful therefore to set out some detail around this initiative 
and in particular the requirements of the ‘Golden Rule’ under the Green Deal scheme.  
 
The Green Deal scheme was a government backed initiative intended to remove 
the upfront cost to consumers of installing energy efficiency measures into their homes. It did 
this by allowing Green Deal Providers (“Provider”) to enter finance agreements with 
consumers to pay for the measures, which were then repaid via the consumer’s electricity 
bill. The finance agreement was part of what was known as the Green Deal Plan (“Plan”). 
 
The Green Deal Provider Guidance issued by the Department of Energy & Climate Change 
(now part of the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy) set out the general 
structure of a Green Deal arrangement and the duties and responsibilities of various parties. 
Typically, this worked as follows: 
 
• 
If a consumer was interested in the Green Deal arrangement, an accredited Green 
Deal Assessor (“Assessor”) would visit their home and assess possible 
improvements the consumer could introduce to make the home more energy 
efficient. This assessment should have taken place at least 24 hours after any initial 
introduction to the Green Deal scheme, unless the consumer opted to waive their 
right to this in writing. 
 
• 
The Assessor produced an Energy Performance Certificate (“EPC”) which showed 
the energy use of a typical household of the relevant type. And a Green Deal Advice 
Report (“GDAR”), which included an Occupancy Assessment certificate (“OA”). 
 
• 
The OA formed part of the qualifying assessment. And would have set out the actual 
use of energy by the customer’s household at the time the assessment was carried 
out. It then detailed the potential measures which could improve energy efficiency for 
the property and what savings these measures would likely lead to. 
 
• 
Once a GDAR was registered in a centralised register, it could be taken to any 
Provider, or several, to obtain quotes for a Plan. The Provider should have ensured 
that the quote covered all payments that were to be recovered from the consumer for 
supply and installation of the improvements and the provision of credit. 
 
 
 
• 
It was the Provider who was ultimately responsible for designing the specification of 
works and the implementation of the Plan. This would include ensuring that the 
improvement measures were properly integrated into the overarching design of the 
package of improvements agreed upon. 
 
• 
The Provider would arrange for a Green Deal Installer (“Installer”) to install the 
measures under the plan. The Provider had to provide the Installer with a clear 
design and specification for all works to be carried out, including how the various 
products should be integrated into the overarching design for the package of 
improvements.  
 
• 
Once the installation was complete, the Green Deal payments were collected by 
electricity suppliers alongside the collection of energy payments. In doing so, the 
supplier would be acting on behalf of the Provider. 
 
• 
The Plan was a contract between the Provider and the consumer. It was a contract 
for energy efficiency improvements to be made to a property and for finance to pay 
for those improvements. 
 
• 
The Provider had to establish the Plan in line with requirements set out in the Energy 
Act 2011, the Green Deal Framework (Disclosure, Acknowledgement, Redress etc.) 
Regulations 2012 (“the Framework”) and the Green Deal Code of Practice. 
 
The Golden Rule 
 
A significant key principle of the Green Deal scheme was that the amount of finance that 
could be provided for the improvement measures was limited to the estimated financial 
benefit to the customer that was likely to be made by those measures. This limitation was 
partly constructed through a comparison of the estimated saving from having the benefits 
with the repayments made, in the first year of the agreement. 
 
This principle is known as the “Golden Rule” and it forms part of the legislative provisions 
governing Plans. Regulation 30 of the Framework stated: “The first year instalments must 
not exceed the estimated first year savings…” 
 
As the Plan remained with the property, and so was not dependent on the usage of energy 
by the specific occupant at the time of the assessment, the total amount of finance that could 
be provided was based on the benefits that could be achieved for a typical property of the 
type the consumer had. 
 
Before entering into a Plan, the Provider had to estimate the overall savings which were 
likely to be made if the improvements were carried out. It was also the responsibility of the 
Provider to ensure that the “Golden Rule” was satisfied and that it was properly explained to 
the consumer. 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
 
 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
S.140A Consumer Credit Act 
As the investigator has already set out in some detail, Mrs P has complained about the 
misrepresentations made by H have created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A 
Consumer Credit Act. Mrs P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship 
between herself and Creation per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an 
allegedly unfair relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing 
unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit 
relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on going, whether it is 
still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mrs P’s case the Creation loan was I understand settled at the end of April 2017. The 
relationship between Mrs P and Creation would therefore be considered to have ended at 
that time when the loan was settled in April 2017. Creation was responsible for the matters 
which made its relationship with Mrs P unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of 
that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By 
relying in her complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between herself and 
Creation, Mrs P had six years to complain about the event, i.e., the unfairness. Mrs P 
complained to our service in 2021, which was within six years of the credit agreement with 
Creation ending.  
 
 
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mrs P’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by H can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming H to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair 
relationship those negotiations and arrangements by H for which Creation was responsible 
under s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mrs P.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
Mrs P’s case 
Mrs P says she was misled that the new measures would effectively pay for themselves. I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs P says she was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied with. 
The cost of the solar panels and insulation was £15,000. This was to be funded by a green 
deal loan of £3,892.90 and a £6,100 loan with Creation. These two loans are insufficient to 
cover the cost of items and I understand the remaining amount was to be funded by Mrs P 
selling her FIT rights. Mrs P would be eligible for FIT payments as she was installing solar 
panels but instead of receiving those payments, I understand Mrs P transferred those rights 
away and these were then used to offset the remaining amount required to cover the £5,007 
cost.  
Mrs P’s Green Deal Plan Summary refers to the total estimated first year savings that she 
can expect to make on her energy bills based on the improvements being made for a typical 
property. Mrs P’s estimated first year savings are noted as being £360.56. Like the 
investigator, I consider it more likely than not that the Green Deal credit agreement included 
the same amount of savings.  
I think it’s important to again refer to the Golden Rule under the Green Deal scheme. H was 
responsible for ensuring that the whole package of instalments was taken into account when 
producing the Plan. The Green Deal Provider Guidance states:  
“The Green Deal Provider has responsibility for designing the specification of works 
to be carried out for the property in question. In practice this means working with the 
customer to select products and ensuring that they are properly integrated into the 
 
 
overarching design of the package of improvements agreed upon. This is important 
in development of the quote stage because costing will depend on, amongst other 
things, the price of the products and any requirements for integration. It is the Green 
Deal Provider’s responsibility to ensure that they take any necessary steps to satisfy 
themselves and their customers that the specification of works is comprehensive, 
ensures the proper integration of measures and meets all the necessary 
requirements.” 
And: 
“The Green Deal Provider should ensure that the quote issued to the customer 
covers all payments that are to be recovered from the Improver and bill payer for 
supply and installation of the improvements and the provision of credit.”  
So, I think it reasonable that H should have known that not all of the cost was being funded 
by the Plan.  
The annual repayments required under the Green Deal credit agreement are approximately 
£357.70, which is clearly less than the estimated savings of £360.56. Considering this in 
isolation, it would appear that the Golden Rule was met here, as the savings are likely to 
exceed the cost of the measures.  
But the cost of the energy efficient measures Mrs P was acquiring far exceeded the amount 
being borrowed under the Green Deal loan and Mrs P was therefore required to make 
repayments to Creation for the £6,100 loan, in addition to the repayments to the Green Deal 
loan. When including the required repayments for the Creation loan, the Golden Rule was 
not even close to be being met.  
Furthermore, one of the well-known benefits of solar panels is that the consumer is then 
eligible for FIT payments. From what I have seen in this case, I think it is more likely than not 
that the FIT payments would have been incorporated into the savings that Mrs P was told 
she would receive. But as already referred to above, it appears Mrs P would not be in receipt 
of the FIT payments as these were transferred elsewhere to cover the remaining £5,007 cost 
of the measures that were not funded by the Green Deal or Creation loans.  
H should also have been aware that any assignment of FIT payments to a third party would 
lower the overall savings that the customer would make as a result of the measures. So, if a 
customer needed to assign part of the FIT payments to a third party in order to be able to 
afford to have the measures installed, the associated reduction in the overall savings would 
need to be taken into account when considering whether the Plan – including the whole 
package of agreed improvements – met the Golden Rule.  
In Mrs P’s case, H should have been aware that the overall savings estimated to be 
achieved under the Plan were partly based on measures that were not being financed by the 
loan it was providing. And I think H should have made sure that this would not reduce the 
overall saving that would be achieved for Mrs P.  
As the assignment of part of the FIT rights did reduce this overall saving below the annual 
cost of the finance, I don’t consider the Plan met the Golden Rule. I also think that by 
indicating to Mrs P that the measures being financed through the Plan would result in an 
estimated overall saving, H provided Mrs P with misleading information.  
Mrs P has been consistent and clear about her intentions of taking out the energy efficient 
measures here and that it was because she was told they would be self-funding and 
therefore essentially cost her nothing. Had Mrs P been made aware that the installation of 
 
 
the measures would come at a net cost to her, I don’t think she would have agreed to the 
Plan. I don’t think she would have agreed to have the new boiler, insulation and solar panels 
installed or have entered the finance agreement with Creation. 
Mrs P complains about the arrangement being misrepresented to her and a 
misrepresentation is generally considered to be a false statement of fact that has the result 
of inducing the other party to enter a contract. For the reasons set out here, I am satisfied 
that there was a false statement of fact around the actual cost of the measures as these 
were not self-funding as Mrs P was led to believe. Mrs P has said that it was that the 
measures would be self-funding and therefore not cost her anything that was behind her 
decision to enter into the agreement. This is to me entirely plausible, and I’m satisfied the 
false statement about the measures being self-funding is what induced Mrs P into entering 
into the arrangement.   
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
The relationship between Mrs P and Creation was built on the misrepresentation made by H, 
Creation’s agent and having considered the submissions in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs P would not have agreed to take out the energy efficiency measures 
had she been correctly informed about the true costs of the arrangements.  
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month Mrs P has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her energy efficient 
benefits and the cost of the loans. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid 
on a loan she would otherwise have not taken out. 
In my view, the original misrepresentations and the resulting collection of the loan 
repayments gave rise to the level of unfairness required to trigger a likely finding by a Court 
under s.140A. As the investigator has set out, the whole relationship is tainted by the untrue 
statements made by Creation’s agent. 
 
It follows that I think a court would likely find the relationship in question unfair. Given that, 
I’ve also concluded that Mrs P has suffered a loss through entering the agreement. And I 
find that she’s been treated unfairly and unreasonably and as a result her complaint should 
be upheld. 
 
Putting things right 
As I am persuaded a court would find the relationship between Creation and Mrs P to have 
been unfair I will now set out what I consider to be fair and reasonable redress. 
The aim of any award will be to try and put Mrs P in the position she would have been in had 
an unfair relationship not been created and H had not misrepresented the benefits of the 
solar panel system and wall insulation. But to achieve this Creation would need to arrange 
for the removal of the solar panels and wall insulation. This is likely to be expensive to 
Creation, who would need to employ other parties to carry out the work. And this would 
create significant disruption for Mrs P. I’m also mindful of these items working in line with the 
way they should and would likely be scrapped if now removed. It would therefore be more 
reasonable in my view for the solar panels and wall insulation to stay in place.   
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this doesn’t 
persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson 
concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair 
 
 
redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a contractual promise 
regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair 
compensation should be based on Mrs P’s expectation of what she would receive. I 
consider Mrs P has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in her relationship with Creation, 
to the extent that her loan repayments to it exceed the benefits from the solar panels and 
wall insulation. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for 
Mrs P. 
 
Mrs P agreed to purchase the energy efficient measures on the basis that they would be 
self-funding. So I’ve considered whether it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to 
take action now to ensure that Mrs P does not lose out financially and the package of 
measures Mrs P received don’t cost her more than the benefits she’s receiving and will 
continue to receive. I appreciate this is not our service’s normal approach where there has 
been a misrepresentation, but I’m satisfied this is a fair remedy in this instance when 
considering the alternatives. 
 
The cost of the solar panels and wall insulation was £7,000 and £8,000 respectively. The 
repayment period for each of the measures under the Green Deal finance is 23 years. The 
first year estimated savings was £360. Any savings over the 23 year loan repayment periods 
could therefore potentially amount to £8,280. 
However, it appears Mrs P did not receive any benefit of the solar panel FIT payments she 
was entitled to. And there is little indication as to the potential savings or benefits the wall 
insulation has or will provide. I note the Green Deal Plan Summary refers to the benefit as 
being £0. The pre installation EPC lists the potential annual benefit as £38. I consider it more 
likely than not that the wall insulation would have provided some benefit and consider the 
£38 annual benefit as more likely than the zero amount on the Green Deal Plan Summary. 
The repayment period for the wall insulation is shown to be 23 years and it is reasonable in 
my view to calculate the potential savings generated by this measure as £874 (23 x £38).  
Turning to the solar panels, as I have set out above, Mrs P has not received the FIT 
payments for the solar panels. But she would however have received the savings on her 
electricity usage, and it would in my view be reasonable to include these savings in any 
repayment calculation. 
The Energy Savings Trust has looked at the electricity usage at a wide range of properties 
over different times in the day, they found that on average consumers actually used 37% of 
the energy from their panels to reduce their electricity usage. Assuming the annual savings 
for the two measures combined were £360 and the wall insulation benefit was £38, the solar 
panel savings were likely to therefore be £322 (£360-£38). Bearing this in mind, I think 
37% of £322 was likely the first-year benefit Mrs P received from the panels, which is 
£119.14. The Green Deal credit agreement says the repayment period for the solar panels is 
23 years and in my view Mrs P should therefore pay no more than £2,740.22 (£119.14 x 23) 
for this measure. 
 
So for both energy saving measures Mrs P should be required to pay no more than 
£3,614.22 (£874 + £2,740.22) in total. Creation should now take steps to ensure Mrs P does 
not pay more than £3,614.22 across both the Green Deal loan and Creation loan. To do this, 
Creation should: 
• 
Refund any instalments paid, with 8% simple interest which should be calculated 
from the date of the payment to the date of the settlement. 
 
 
 
Creation should also calculate how much Mrs P has paid towards the Green Deal loan: 
 
• 
If she has paid more than £3,614.22 Creation should refund any payments made 
above that amount, with 8% simple interest and compensate her for the outstanding 
amount left on the Green Deal loan. 
 
• 
If Mrs P has not yet paid £3,614.22, Creation should compensate her for any 
payments due under the Green Deal loan above this amount. 
 
Finally, as I’ve already mentioned, the rights to receive FIT payments were transferred to a 
third party to fund the remaining costs of the measures. I haven’t seen a full copy of the 
contract for this transfer, but it seems Mrs P may be liable to pay a buyout price, if in the 
future, she decides to remove the solar panels from the property and/or sell her house. The 
contract may also place other obligations on Mrs P. 
 
Without seeing the full contract, itself, at this stage it’s unclear what the liabilities could be, if 
any. Additionally, there’s no guarantee when these liabilities will arise, if at all. Therefore, to 
resolve this issue, it would be reasonable for Creation to propose to undertake any/all 
liabilities that may arise from a third party, in relation to the sale of the FIT contract. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs P’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd and direct it to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above 
in the putting things right section. 
Our service did not receive a response from either party.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reconsidered the circumstances of this complaint, my provisional findings of 9 
October 2024 and the absence of any further comments or arguments from either party, I 
have come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.  
I’m satisfied Mrs P’s complaint should be upheld, again for the reasons set out above and in 
my provisional decision.   
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs P’s complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should now settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above in the putting 
things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2024. 
  
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
