DRN-3976431
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr C was provided with a loan by Creation in 2009. He was required to make monthly 
repayments of around £99 and the total repayable under the agreement was around £8,352.
Mr C says that the lending was unaffordable and that adequate checks weren’t carried out 
before the loan was provided. He says at the time of the loan he had no guaranteed job and 
he was struggling financially. Creation didn’t agree. It was only able to provide limited 
information about the checks from the time of the loan given the time that had passed but 
said that affordability checks would have taken place. 
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that Mr C had 
experienced difficulties making his repayments from the outset but she didn’t think this was 
enough to be able to say that the loan shouldn’t have been provided. She noted that 
Creation hadn’t been able to provide the details of its checks and also that Mr C hadn’t been 
able to provide evidence in the form of bank statements or other details to show the lending 
would have been seen to have been unaffordable had adequate checks taken place. 
Therefore, she didn’t think she had enough evidence to uphold the complaint. 
Mr C responded to our investigator’s view reiterating that he didn’t have full time employment 
at the time the loan was provided and stating that further checks should have taken place. 
As a resolution hasn’t been agreed, this case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr C was provided with a loan in June 2009, and he raised his complaint in 2021. While 
Creation initially raised concerns about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, the 
jurisdiction decision was accepted, and the merits of Mr C’s complaint have been 
considered.
Due to the time that has passed from when the loan was provided there is limited information 
available. Creation has provided a copy of the details taken at the time of Mr C’s application 
and these state he is in full time employment. Creation has said that checks would have 
taken place but hasn’t been able to provide evidence of these. I do not find this surprising 
given the length of time it would be required to keep the records. While I note the information 
about Mr C’s employment status I think further checks were also required and without 
evidence of the checks that took place I cannot say whether these were adequate or not 
given the size of the loan and any information that may have been received at the time. 
I have looked at Mr C’s repayment history and can see that he struggled to make his 
repayments from shortly after the loan was provided and that monthly repayments of £10 
were agreed in September 2009. His payments were then reduced further in 2012 to £1. 
Given the timing of the repayment issues, this does raise concerns that the lending may not 
have been affordable at the outset. But, without further information, I cannot say this for 
certain as it could have been the lending decision was made on reasonable grounds and 
Mr C’s circumstances changed shortly after – and in this case I note that he did say he was 
in full time employment at the time of the application. 
Our investigator asked for further details from Mr C about his income and expenses and 
credit file at the time. Unfortunately, Mr C wasn’t able to provide this and, again due to the 
timing, I can understand why this was difficult. However, without evidence to show that 
adequate checks would have shown the lending to be unaffordable, I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr C and I can see he has struggled financially, 
but without evidence that the loan was unaffordable at the time it was provided, and that had 
Creation carried out reasonable checks it would have realised this, I am unable to uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough information to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
