 
 
DRN-4967147 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr D has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
 
Mr D has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr D throughout.  
 
What happened 
In July 2015 Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “Z”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £15,512.40 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £129.27.  
 
On 27 January 2022 Mr D sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He said Z told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding. He said Z told him the system would be maintenance free with a 25-year life 
expectancy and his energy bills would go down.  
 
Mr D said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter dated 8 February 2022 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr D decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022.  
 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Z had likely told Mr D the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. They didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they thought Z 
had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mr D pays no more than that, and he keeps 
the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
 
Mr D accepted the view, but Creation didn’t. In summary, Creation said: 
• 
The complaint was brought more than six years after the events complained of, so 
outside the time limits which apply to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman. 
• 
Mr D’s allegations of an unfair relationship don’t relate to any events post-dating the 
sale of the system in around July 2015.  
• 
The end of a credit relationship may be the starting point for limitation purposes in 
civil litigation, but it isn’t the starting point for the six-year period under DISP 
 
 
2.8.2R(2)(a), where the unfair relationship itself would not constitute an event. It is 
the event(s) giving rise to an unfair relationship which are the “events complained of” 
for the purposes of that rule.  
• 
Mr D had not brought a complaint about Creation’s handing of his section 75 (“s.75”) 
claim and it did not issue a final response letter in relation to one.  
• 
The investigator conflates the jurisdiction rules on the Financial Ombudsman’s time 
limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) and DISP 2.8.2R(1). It 
considers the approach allows any complainant to bring an otherwise time-barred 
claim in time by complaining about the decision not to uphold the complaint.  
• 
Without prejudice to its position on jurisdiction it considers the approach to redress 
should be in accordance with the Court decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
 
As things weren’t resolved, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision.   
 
I issued my first provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 31 July 2024, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set 
out the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr D’s complaint. I set out an extract 
below: 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
 
Creation argues that the event complained of when the matter is brought to our service 
occurred as and when the supplier caused the alleged s.75 liability to arise in the first place. 
I disagree: the lender’s s.75 liability in damages doesn’t arise as a result of any act or 
omission of the lender in performing a regulated activity – it is simply a claim given by statute 
to the borrower against the lender. And it arises from the acts or omissions of a third party, 
the supplier. Only when and if that claim is presented by the borrower to the lender must the 
lender do anything about it, which is to honour its statutory liability by paying the claim if it is 
a valid one. Until then, the lender’s acts and omissions are simply to have lent money to the 
borrower at the borrower’s request, and that is not the matter complained about.  
  
So, when a borrower brings a complaint to our service alleging that they were due money 
under s.75 which the lender has refused to pay, the “event complained of” in such 
circumstances isn’t the supplier’s conduct; it is the lender’s refusal to honour its alleged 
statutory liability when the borrower made the claim.  
 
 
 
In this case, Creation rolled up its consideration of Mr D’s claim into a letter that both 
explained why it would not be paying the claim and treated Mr D as having brought a 
complaint which he was entitled to refer to our service.  So, its refusal to accept and pay the 
s.75 claim was contained in a final response letter of 8 February 2022, in which it told Mr D 
he could refer his complaint to our service within 6 months.  
 
In those circumstances, because Creation’s letter dated 8 February 2022 rejected Mr D’s 
claim under s.75 (which Mr D says is valid) it constituted “the event complained of”. It also 
set out Creation’s response to any complaint that flowed from this and invited Mr D to refer 
that complaint to our service if he was dissatisfied with the outcome. Creation could have 
separated those stages, waited for Mr D to complain that the s.75 claim had not been 
accepted and honoured, and only then issued its final response letter. Instead, it followed the 
same practice that many other lenders adopt by allowing Mr D to refer the matter directly to 
the ombudsman service, by way of treating it as a complaint.  
 
Creation argues that Mr D didn’t complain to it about the manner in which it dealt with his 
s.75 claim, and that it has never responded to such a complaint. But that ignores the fact 
that it was Creation’s choice to roll the answer to the s.75 claim into a final response letter in 
the way that I’ve described.  That was a reasonable and pragmatic way of proceeding, 
because the issues between the parties on this part of Mr D’s complaint were whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Creation to reject Mr D’s s.75 claim, as they remain to this day.  
 
Creation also refers to DISP 2.8.1R(1) which broadly provides a complaint can only be 
considered if the respondent has sent the complainant its final response (or summary 
resolution communication). However, Creation did send Mr D a final response letter on 8 
February 2022. After the complaint was referred by Mr D to the ombudsman service on 15 
February 2022, we wrote to Creation providing details of the complaint as submitted to the 
ombudsman service including details of Mr D’s complaint about the s.75 claim. 
 
If Creation’s position had been that it denied it received any such complaint, it could have 
raised this with the ombudsman service at the time, but it did not. Instead, it provided 
information concerning its position on the complaint. It was apparent from this 
correspondence that, in relation to s.75, Mr D’s complaint was that Creation had a liability to 
him which it was declining to pay.   
 
So, even if no final response had been issued in respect of the complaint about s.75, in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.1R(2) Creation has had well over eight weeks to respond to the 
complaint and our service is entitled to deal with it. 
 
There has been no conflation with the six-month time limit under DISP 2.8.2R(1) in this 
regard. That Creation refused to accept the s.75 claim within a final response letter does not 
give rise to any difficulties calculating when time begins to run under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a).  
 
Creation also argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the 
Limitation Act 1980 (“the LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying 
when a complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do 
consider that the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr D’s complaint about 
its rejection of the s.75 claim. 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
 
 
Mr D is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair 
relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship 
ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on foot, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr D’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr D unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr D 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr D’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr D says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr D says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr D to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but Mr D said he’s 
supplied everything he had. I’ve not seen enough to demonstrate Mr D had documentation 
from the point of sale that would’ve given him enough information about the savings he’d 
likely make from the system.  
 
Mr D said he had no interest in purchasing a solar panel system before Z contacted him. He 
said he was motivated by the fact Z told him through generating electricity he wouldn’t have 
as much for bills. Mr D has said he only agreed to the purchase because Z told him the 
system would pay for itself. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in this 
particular case, Mr D would have agreed to pay for the system if his monthly outgoings 
would increase significantly.  
 
On balance I find Mr D’s account to be plausible and convincing.  
 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £1,551 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest he’s achieved anywhere near this 
benefit. I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of 
the system weren’t true.  
 
 
 
I think Z’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr D’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think Z’s 
representative would have known that Mr D’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him. 
 
Considering Mr D’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely Z gave Mr D a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr D’s account of what he was told by Z credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had Z not given the reassurances he said he received.  
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr D expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr D went into the transaction. Either way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr D’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mr D in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr D and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
D a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
Z’s assurances. That is, that Mr D’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with the 
Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me 
I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim 
for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint 
where I consider it likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the 
assurances were such that fair compensation should be based on Mr D’s expectation of 
what he would receive. I consider Mr D has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his 
relationship with Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to it exceed the benefits 
from the solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation 
for Mr D. 
 
 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr D received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr D received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr D 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
For the reasons I have explained I’m intending to uphold Mr D’s complaint and direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr D made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr D’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B* 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr D should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C** 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr D.  
 
*Where Mr D has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr D some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
Finally, I note Mr D also mentioned claiming damages through s.75. Given my above 
conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of Mr D’s 
s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.” 
  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 August 2024. Mr D has accepted my provisional findings. 
Creation has not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or 
asked for an extension to do so.  
 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.  
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr D’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr D’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr D’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
