DRN-3683760
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy about the way in which Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975.
What happened
In October 2018 Miss M purchased a cooker from a supplier and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
In 2021 the cooker developed a fault. Miss M contacted the supplier who offered a partial 
refund.
Miss M raised a section 75 claim with Creation seeking a full refund. Creation accepted the 
claim but offered a partial refund, taking the age and usage of the cooker into account. Miss 
M was unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I thought Miss M had a valid section 75 claim 
because the cooker had failed prematurely and therefore wasn’t durable and was of 
unsatisfactory quality. I looked into the average lifespan of a cooker of the type supplied to 
Miss M and said a reasonable person could expect a cooker of this type to last 12 years. I 
said that because Miss M had owned the cooker for 3 years before it failed, and because no 
replacement cooker was available, It was fair to ask Creation to refund the purchase price of 
the cooker less a deduction of 25% for use, resulting in a  refund of £284.99 to Miss M. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
make.
Miss M said she accepted my provisional decision. Creation didn’t respond.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has accepted my decision and Creation hasn’t responded. In the circumstances, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay £284.99 to Miss M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
£284.99 to Miss M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
