DRN-2039012
The complaint
Mr J complains that a laptop he obtained with credit provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. He wants to return the laptop and he wants 
Creation Consumer Finance to refund what he’s paid.
What happened
Mr J obtained a laptop using finance provided by Creation Consumer Finance in February 
2018. He complained to Creation Consumer Finance in June 2019. He said the laptop 
wasn’t working and that, when he returned it to the retailer, it said the laptop needed a new 
battery. But this didn’t resolve the problem. Mr J took the laptop to a local independent repair 
business. It identified that the motherboard had failed and couldn’t be repaired.
Creation Consumer Finance didn’t agree to refund Mr J. It said the laptop’s warranty had 
expired and that Mr J hadn’t provided evidence to show that the fault was a manufacturing 
issue, rather than wear and tear.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded there 
was enough evidence to show the laptop wasn’t sufficiently durable, so wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. He thought Creation Consumer Finance should refund all 
payments made by Mr J and reimburse him for the cost of the report he’d obtained.
Creation Consumer Finance didn’t agree. It said, in summary, that:

Mr J had provided a “quote” rather than a report and that this didn’t show what the 
problem was or whether there was a fault when the laptop was supplied. 

If there was a fault, it was likely to have caused a problem sooner than it did.

It’s possible the laptop has been left on for long periods and over-heated and, bearing in 
mind this was not a top of the range laptop, this may have affected its durability.
Mr J told us about his recent personal circumstances and explained that the failure of 
Creation Consumer Finance to accept the investigator’s recommendation was adding to his 
distress. He asked whether we would consider awarding compensation for the distress this 
matter has caused.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what’s fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr J brings his complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Mr J has 
a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also bring 
that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint I 
must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that 
“the quality of goods is satisfactory”. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether the laptop was of satisfactory quality, I’ve considered its cost, how long 
after supply the fault occurred, and the nature of the fault.
The laptop stopped working more than a year after it had been supplied. Mr J returned it to 
the retailer who suggested a new battery was required, but this didn’t fix the fault. Mr J took 
the laptop to an independent repairer. It has provided its conclusions. What it’s said is very 
brief and is on a piece of paper headed “quote”. Whilst I agree with Creation Consumer 
Finance that it would be nice to have a comprehensive report which tells us the exact cause 
of the fault, I don’t find there’s any reason for me not to place reliance on the short 
conclusion that we do have. The independent expert said they couldn’t identify any problem 
with the screen or the battery and concluded that:
“Motherboard is faulty, the device will not turn on.
No power getting to mother boards.”
The independent expert also checked for physical or liquid damage, but could not find any. 
This suggests that the laptop hasn’t been mis-used or damaged – either accidently or 
wilfully.
The laptop is probably best described as an ‘entry level’ model; it was not expensive. But I 
think a reasonable person would expect a brand-new laptop – even at the cheaper end of 
the market – to last considerably longer than this one has. I’m not persuaded that it’s been 
mis-used or damaged, so I think it’s more likely than not that it wasn’t of suitable quality 
when it was supplied.
Putting things right
As the laptop can’t be repaired, I conclude that its fair and reasonable that Mr J should be 
refunded. Creation Consumer Finance should:
1.
Cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr J.
2.
Arrange the collection of the laptop at no cost to Mr J.
3.
Refund Mr J’s deposit in full; adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the 
payment to the date of settlement. *
4.
Refund all payments made by Mr J, adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement. *
5.
On receipt of evidence from Mr J, reimburse him for the cost of the independent report.
*  HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it’s 
taken off if he asks for one.
Mr J has explained how the failure of Creation Consumer Finance to refund him at an earlier 
stage, particularly in response to our investigator’s conclusions, has added to his distress. 
But our process allows for either party to ask for an ombudsman’s decision and I won’t be 
penalising the business for requesting this. Whilst an award for the trouble and upset being 
supplied with a faulty laptop has caused would not be unreasonable, I have taken into 
account that Mr J did have trouble free use of the laptop for several months. As I have not 
decided Creation Consumer Finance should keep any of the payments Mr J has made, 
I think this adequately compensates him overall for the distress he’s been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
