DRN-2181247
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him interest on his payment 
plan but didn’t send him a reminder to settle his account before the expiry date of the ‘Buy 
now, pay later’ promotion. 
What happened
In February and March 2019, Mr A bought items using payment plans provided by Creation 
Consumer Finance. The plans had a six-month interest-free period, which ended in August 
and September 2019. Mr A has had a number of similar plans before and received an email 
reminder that interest-free period was coming to an end about four weeks before. He then 
paid off the balance of the plan to avoid paying the interest.
 
However, he didn’t receive email reminders for either of these plans, and so didn’t make the 
payments towards them before the expiry date of the interest-free period. This meant that 
Creation began collecting the monthly payment for each of them by direct debit from Mr A’s 
bank account, and he was charged interest on them. Mr A complained.
 
Creation said that with any financial account there is a degree of self-responsibility as a 
customer needs to make sure they make payments to avoid interest charges. It said that 
Mr A had agreements that expired in August and September 2019 and it had issued monthly 
statement email remainders to him in July and August 2019. As it didn’t receive the 
payments required to settle the agreements, the monthly direct debits for them were started 
and interest was incurred. It said that, regardless of whether a customer receives a reminder 
or not, it is still their responsibility to make sure payments are made. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didn’t think it should be upheld. She 
said Creation had collected the direct debit payments for the items Mr A had bought in line 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. She said Creation had provided evidence to 
show that automated email reminders had been sent to Mr A in July and August 2019. But 
she said that even though Mr A hadn’t received these, the terms and conditions said: “You 
remain liable to pay all sums due under the agreement, whether or not you receive a 
statement.” The investigator was satisfied that Creation had correctly applied interest once 
the interest-free period expired and that it had sent the email reminders to Mr A. 
Mr A didn’t accept the investigator’s findings. He said he didn’t receive the email reminders 
which showed that Creation’s systems had broken down. He has always been told that he 
would receive a reminder that the interest-free period was coming to an end, and incurring 
interest defeats the purpose of buying this way. Mr A said Creation should treat him fairly as 
a loyal customer who had used this plan several times before with a record of settling on 
time. He said Creation should refund the interest he was charged. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr A’s strength of feeling about this matter, particularly as he’d used this type 
of payment plan previously and had always settled the balance when the interest-free period 
was about to end to avoid being charged the interest. I can see that he has relied upon 
receiving the email reminders about this, which were sent to him around four weeks before 
the expiry.
However, in the circumstances here, I don’t think that Creation has acted wrongly or unfairly 
in beginning to collect the monthly direct debit payments for the items Mr A had bought when 
the balance wasn’t settled before the end of the interest-free period.
I can see from Creation’s records that a statement is emailed to Mr A each month and it has 
told us that this contains a link to log into his online account. And these records show that 
they were sent to Mr A in July and August 2019 and gave the details of the two items he 
bought in February and March 2019. In the section “Important information”, the online 
statements also set out when the interest-free period for each item would end and when 
settlement needs to be made before interest is charged.
 
Mr A has told us that he has purchased a number of items using the ‘Buy now, pay later’ 
plan, and has settled these at the end of the interest-free period so hasn’t been charged 
interest. So I think it’s reasonable to say that he would’ve been aware that there was a need 
to settle the balance at the end of the six months if he wanted to avoid paying interest. 
 
So although Mr A didn’t receive the email reminders that were sent to him, I don’t think this 
means that Creation applied interest to his account balance unfairly when this was done in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement as they weren’t settled until after 
the end of the expiry of the interest-free period. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman
