 
 
DRN-5110244 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd unfairly refused to provide her with 
information about its decision to decline her loan application. 
 
What happened 
In January 2024 Miss H applied, in a retail store, for a buy now pay later loan (the ‘loan’) 
to fund the purchase of a phone costing in the region of £1,000. Her application was 
declined by the lender, Creation. Miss H contacted Creation to find out the reasons. She 
said she had good earnings and an excellent credit record so she couldn’t understand the 
reasons for the loan being declined.  
 
In response, Creation told Miss H, as with other lenders, it was not obligated to disclose 
an exact reason for declining her application but said, for example, this could be due to 
her not meeting its lending criteria and/or due to information obtained from credit 
reference agencies.   
 
Miss H complained and referred this to our service. Amongst other things, she said she 
wanted to know Creation’s reasons as she was concerned that, for example, someone was 
trying to fraudulently use her details. And she thought given more details would allow her to 
correct anything that was wrong. 
 
Creation told us that a key reason it declined Miss H’s application was that it was unable to 
verify her details via credit reference agencies.  
 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld and recommended an award of 
£100 to Miss H for the distress and inconvenience caused by Creation’s failings. Amongst 
other things, our investigator noted the Financial Conduct Authority’s Consumer Duty 
Principles required regulated firms to help consumers fulfil their financial objectives. And with 
this objective in mind, Creation should have done more to help Miss H understand why she 
was having trouble obtaining credit. Our investigator thought this could have been achieved 
if Creation had signposted Miss H to third parties (which it hadn’t) who may have helped her 
understand why the application was declined, such as credit reference agencies and/or the 
MoneyHelper guidance.  
 
Both Miss H and Creation disagreed with the investigator’s view. Miss H wanted to know 
the reasons why Creation declined her application. And Creation maintained its position 
about what it could and could not tell Miss H. It added in terms of what the investigator 
said about Consumer Duty, that Miss H already knew about accessing credit reference 
agencies for information as she had already contacted these before making her complaint.  
 
When the matter was passed to me I arranged for Miss H to be told about Creation not 
being able to find her details via credit reference agencies. Following this Creation 
provided an update saying it had discovered this was likely due to a personal detail being 
entered incorrectly in her loan application. Creation said this information would not have 
been disclosed to Miss H even if it had known about it at the time of her initial enquiry 
(which it was not), as it considered this would present a security risk. 
 
 
 
I issued a provisional decision saying that I was intending to award Miss H £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her by Creation. 
 
Miss H agreed with the decision but she refuted Creation’s claims that she would have 
had an opportunity to review the application before it was submitted. She said the retailer 
who input the information into her application form, did so out of her sight. Miss H thought 
Creation should work with the retailer to address any shortcomings in the application 
process.  
 
Creation also agreed with my recommended outcome. It said in response to a comment I 
made, which is set out below, that there was nothing that could have been corrected once 
the application was submitted as the credit was already declined and would not have been 
reversed. Creation acknowledged that whilst there was still no guarantee of acceptance, if 
the customer decided to apply again, they need to double check what information was 
input into the application.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having reconsidered all the evidence and further submissions, I am reaching the same 
decision for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are as follows: 
 
As noted above, the information Creation has supplied to us suggests that the application 
was declined because it was unable to locate Miss H’s details via credit reference 
agencies. And this appears to be because one aspect of her personal details had been 
entered on the application incorrectly. In terms of who entered the details, both Miss H 
and Creation said that during the application process the retailer, who was acting as 
Creation’s credit broker, entered information into an online application based on details 
Miss H provided. According to Creation, Miss H would have had an opportunity to review 
this information prior to it being submitted.  
 
Given what both parties have said, I can’t say for sure who was at fault for any errors in 
the application form. I also can’t say for sure whether Creation would otherwise have 
approved the loan. Many factors can influence a lending decision, which is a commercial 
decision, such as an individual’s circumstances including income, outgoings, existing 
levels of debt and the lenders own internal lending criteria. In any event, even without this 
loan, I can see that Miss H didn’t suffer financially as she was able to find an alternative 
means of payment for the phone without significant detriment.  
 
Therefore, the key issue here is whether Creation should have given Miss H more detailed 
information about why her loan application was declined. In reaching a decision on this 
issue, I have taken into account Creation’s submissions about why it didn’t provide this 
information to Miss H when she asked. It said that its lending criteria is commercially 
sensitive. But I think checks via credit reference agencies is a generally well-known 
procedure for lenders like Creation to undertake. I can’t see that letting Miss H know her 
details could not be found, which was simply a matter of fact, would have led to her 
gaining a specific understanding of Creation’s lending criteria which would not already 
have been reasonably known. 
 
Creation has also said giving Miss H a more detailed explanation could have led to, for 
example, fraud and it was a breach of its security policy as a result. However, this was 
simply an error made at the point of sale which could have been corrected if Miss H was 
 
 
told about it when she approached Creation for more details. In my view, even if Creation 
wasn’t responsible for the original error, it had the opportunity to deal with it correctly and 
chose not to do so. 
 
I understand Miss H’s upset and frustration at not being told the reasons for her loan not 
being granted. I can see this has caused her unnecessary inconvenience and worry. I 
think this was an avoidable failing on Creation’s part. At the very least, I think Creation 
could have pointed Miss H in the right direction to clarify or correct information that might 
be misleading. And by not doing so, I consider, as our investigator has said, this falls 
short in terms of its Consumer Duty obligations (see in particular, 2A.2.21G).  
 
I acknowledge Miss H independently checked her credit file as Creation has pointed 
out. But I think this misses the point. The Duty sets a higher expectation for the 
standard of care that firms such as Creation give customers (which includes potential 
as well as actual customers). And firms are required to avoid causing foreseeable harm 
to customers as well as enabling and supporting them to pursue their financial 
objectives. I think Creation failed to do so by not providing Miss H with sufficiently clear 
information to allow her to understand why she was having trouble obtaining credit.  
 
I’ve taken on board what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision. But 
neither party has submitted anything that has changed my mind. So, as I said in my 
provisional decision, given Miss H has spent a reasonable amount of time trying to sort this 
matter out. And has been caused some distress and inconvenience whilst doing so, I’m 
satisfied £150 fairly and reasonably recognises the impact Creation’s error has had in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint.  
 
My final decision 
I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Miss H £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2024. 
 
  
 
Yolande Mcleod 
Ombudsman 
 
