 
 
DRN-4988651 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr S has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr S throughout. 
 
What happened 
Mr S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M” using a 10-
year fixed sum loan from Creation. Creation told us the sale happened on 24 January 
2015. The loan was for £6,995 and the monthly repayments were £92.17 for 120 months. 
 
Mr S complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. Mr S also complained 
that the supplier had promised to make the application for the FIT payments. But he has 
never received any FIT payments. He also believed that what happened at the time of the 
sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
 
Mr S raised his complaint to Creation on 13 January 2022. Creation issued a final 
response letter dated 20 January 2022. Creation considered Mr S had brought his claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S asked us to review his complaint. Mr S 
brought his complaint to this service on 24 January 2022.  
 
An investigator considered Mr S’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation.  
 
On 9 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr S keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr S had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mr S accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us that it still felt the case was not in 
our jurisdiction and it suggested the redress was incorrect in not following court precedent. 
 
 
As Creation did not accept the investigator’s assessment, the case was progressed to the 
next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 6 August 2024, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr S’s complaint. I set out an extract below: 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr S’s s.75 claim 
on 20 January 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr S brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 24 January 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 24 January 2022, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
S.  
 
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr S has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels.  
 
Mr S said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. I’ve 
looked at the documents provided by Mr S to see if there was anything contained within it 
that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t provide that much financial benefit.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr S on 24 January 2015, sets out Mr S’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. I also note that it was signed at 
the same meeting that Creation say Mr S signed the contract to buy the solar panels.  
Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar 
panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr S’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr S to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr S would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. 
 
I’ve also looked at M’s website from around the time of the sale. The cache of the website 
I have seen is from December 2014 (one month before the agreement was signed). I am 
satisfied on this occasion it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mr S. 
 
On the page the deals with solar power, it says: 
 
“Installing Solar PV panels will not only bring down the cost of supplying electricity to your 
home or business, but will actually bring long-term financial benefits by earning you 
money for years to come. 
 
Not only will Solar PV panels help you save money on bills, they will also generate you 
tax-free income, and a return of investment of up to 15 per cent for 20 years under 
Government funding incentives to increase levels of green energy.” 
 
  
And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mr S dealt with would’ve said 
similar things to those M produced in its promotional literature. I note that there was little 
or no words of caution about the likely performance of solar panels on M’s website from 
around the time of the sale.  
 
Taking all of the promotional material into account, the evidence suggests to me that it 
supports the testimony provided by Mr S. He told us he was told that the solar panels 
would provide a significant income and the details I have seen suggest that the rate of 
income was indicated to be greater than the interest rate Mr S was to pay on the loan he 
would need to take out to provide the solar panels.  
 
As mentioned above, Mr S told us that B told him the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off the cost of the loan. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr P’s 
 
 
testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I 
have noted that Creation has not responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr S said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mr S left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £92, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mr S’s account of what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from M.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,106.04 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr S’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr S’s testimony is that it didn’t. And the information I have seen suggests that the solar 
panel system failed to generate anything close to the sort of income required to meet the 
cost of Mr S’s loan repayments. 
 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr S’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr S’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the cost of the borrowing in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr S. 
 
Considering Mr S’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr S a false and misleading impression of the likely 
financial benefits of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr S’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr S was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr S went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr S’s point of view. 
 
Mr S also told us that  
 
“I raised lots of issues with the supplier via telephone. I was told that the supplier would 
deal with the electricity company to process any paperwork requirements at the time, and 
it would be a simple case of and I remember the quote “waiting for the cheques to come 
in”.  
 
I rang the supplier after six months as I had heard nothing and was told that we would 
need to wait for an accumulation of excess energy being built up before payments were 
made and then they would be six monthly. 
 
I waited a further six months and then was unable to contact the supplier as I couldn’t get 
through by phone. I called the energy supplier who said they weren’t aware of any 
contract and that it should have been set up within 12 months of the installation. I 
 
 
assumed I was in a word scammed!! It wasn’t until I saw the advert for the solicitors that if 
I thought I had been mis sold the panels that I may have a claim for compensation. 
I haven’t received a penny in ten years, nor have I generated excess energy. I feel quite 
embarrassed at being so easily miss led.” 
 
So, Mr S also told us that he was told that the supplier would deal with any paperwork to 
do with claiming FIT payments. And they failed to do that. So, in this particular case, there 
is testimony that the supplier not only knew that the FIT hadn’t been applied for but was 
also responsible for not having done so. Mr S also told us that he had never had excess 
energy to enjoy energy savings on his bills. I have been shown no evidence that 
undermines Mr S’s testimony.  
 
And considering all of the marketing material I have seen and the testimony of Mr S it 
seems to be most likely that what was being mentioned as a major benefit of installing 
solar panels was the potential financial benefits they could produce. I am reminded that 
the website said, 
   
“Not only will Solar PV panels help you save money on bills, they will also generate you 
tax-free income, and a return of investment of up to 15 per cent for 20 years under 
Government funding incentives to increase levels of green energy.” 
 
So, on balance, I question why Mr S would have gone to the trouble and expense of 
having solar panels fitted and then not to have registered for the FIT payments that he 
thought would help repay the loan he took out to pay for them. So, it seems more likely 
that M had agreed to prepare and submit paperwork for Mr S and then didn’t do so. And 
as new applications for FIT payments were capped in 2016 and closed in 2019, Mr S has 
lost the chance to benefit from FIT payments moving forwards.  
 
Having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, and in the absence of any 
evidence to undermine Mr S’s testimony, I find Mr S’s account of this to be plausible and 
convincing. So, in this particular case, any redress should take this into account as a 
failing on the supplier’s part.  
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the likely financial benefits of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr S and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr S’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.  
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
 
 
the unfairness of Mr S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the likely financial benefits of the solar panel system. I require 
Creation to repay Mr S a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr S’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.  
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that, I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mr S’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mr S has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr 
S. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known costs and any identifiable savings so he pays no more than that 
amount. But the calculation should not include any assumptive income Mr S could have 
received from the solar panel system from FIT payments over the 10-year term of the 
loan, because Mr S told us he has received none. And for reasons given above, I have 
found that to be a failing on the part of the supplier. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Mr S may have received by way of energy savings. Mr S told us he 
had made none. But Mr S may need to supply up to date details to help Creation see 
whether he made savings or not in order to make that calculation.  
 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting 
in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
 
Mr S told us that the loan is still running.  
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr S made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr S’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and assumed 
benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr S should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
 
 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr S.  
• 
Give Mr S the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments. 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr S 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 20 August 2024. Mr S has accepted my provisional findings. 
Creation has not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or 
asked for an extension to do so.  
 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr S’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr S’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
