DRN-3921411
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA.
What happened
In January 2014, Miss M bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company, which 
I’ll call “G”, using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Miss M made a claim to Creation. She said that she was told by G that the system would pay 
for itself so she would be better off each month, but this was a misrepresentation, and she’s 
suffered a financial loss as a result (the s.75 claim). Miss M also said that her relationship 
with Creation was unfair on her (complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A). 
Creation treated this as a complaint and dismissed it on the grounds that under the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which set out how financial 
businesses should handle complaints, the complaint had been made too late – more than six 
years after the events Miss M was complaining about. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss M referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Miss M’s complaint, they ultimately thought that: 

The s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, so dismissing 
the claim was a reasonable response. 

The unfair relationship (s.140A) complaint was one we could look at under our rules 
and that it had been referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Miss M and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Miss M keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Miss M had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. 
Miss M accepted the investigator’s view. 
Creation disagreed. It maintained that the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction due to 
having been brought too late under the DISP Rules. It said that any alleged unfairness arose 
due to events that took place more than 6 years before Miss M made her complaint. So, we 
should not consider the merits of the complaint. 
As the complaint has not been resolved, I’ve been asked to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to our jurisdiction to consider the complaint 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (the ‘FSMA’) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook known as 
DISP. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook. The rules surrounding time limits are set out in DISP 
2.8.2R which include that: 
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received” 
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to look at Miss M’s s.75 and s.140A complaints 
before turning to address their merits.
My findings on jurisdiction 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
Where Creation is exercising its rights and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying on a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the ‘RAO’). 
In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, if a debtor 
advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to honour 
that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Miss M’s s.75 
claim on 11 November 2021. Miss M brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman 
service on 5 January 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in 
time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A
Miss M is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between her and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complaint of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continues, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships 
– where if the credit relationship is continuing an assessment of whether a relationship is 
unfair is made as at the date of assessment, and if the credit relationship has ended, as at 
the date the relationship ended:  Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
In this case, the relationship was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman 
service on 5 January 2022, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of 
DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a). I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about the 
alleged unfair relationship per s.140A in the circumstances. 
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 10 January 2014. Miss M brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 7 October 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an agreement 
with Creation. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss M. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Miss M has said that she was told by G’s representative that the system would pay for itself 
so they would be better off each month. 
Miss M has said she had no prior interest in solar panels and G cold-called her. The 
salesperson persisted even when she said she wasn’t interested, and made it sound very 
attractive financially. That it would help her financial situation and she would be no worse off 
each month. At the time Miss M was the sole income earner, working part-time and receiving 
working tax credits, and had two dependent children. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Miss M to see if there was anything contained 
within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The credit agreement, dated 10 January 2014, shows the following information about the 
loan:

Purchase price
£5,995.00

Interest 
£3,304.92

Total payable 
£9,299.92

120 repayments of 
£77.49 each
So, I think it was clear what Miss M had agreed to pay for the system.
Miss M has provided part of the sales documents which show that the first-year benefit was 
expected to be £680, with lifetime benefits of £25,249.56. It showed that the payback time 
would be eight years. Which is less than the ten-year loan term. 
I don’t think the benefits shown on this document are clear. On the one hand, the first-year 
benefit shown would be insufficient to cover the first-year loan repayments. But on the other 
hand, the document indicates that after eight years the benefits would’ve covered the cost of 
the system.
Given the lack of clarity in the documents, I think there was plenty of scope for Miss M to 
misunderstand what they showed. So, she was likely to be reliant on G to explain things to 
her in terms of how the costs she was agreeing to pay would compare with the benefits of 
the system. 
G was a member of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (“RECC”), which published a 
consent order in August 2015. This referred to a number of complaints about G that it 
received from April 2013 to August 2015. This suggested that G had breached the RECC 
under sections 5.2, 5.3 and 9.1, and had subsequently failed a compliance audit.
RECC 5.2 concerns the behaviour of sales representatives, including that they must not give 
false or misleading information and statements to, or pressurise, consumers. RECC 5.3 
concerns performance information and predictions – including that where a loan is used, any 
payback periods stated must take into account the full amount payable including loan 
interest. 
The consent order indicated that G agreed to a full re-audit within six months to determine if 
the problems identified by the previous audit had been rectified. No further RECC 
disciplinary action took place following this. But the period of time referred to in the consent 
order included the time when Miss M purchased her system from G. So, it seems there were 
issues with how G was selling solar panel systems around that time. 
Looking at Miss M’s sales documents I am concerned by the payback time shown. She had 
agreed to pay 9,299.22 in total through using a loan. Using the assumptions shown on the 
contract, I’ve calculated that the payback time, taking into account the full amount payable, 
would be more than 11 years. So, G should not have told Miss M that system would pay for 
itself within a shorter period. 
Overall, I find what Miss M’s said believable. Bearing in mind her circumstances at the time, 
I’m of the opinion that the system being self-funding would be a key reason for her to 
purchase the system. And she wouldn’t have done so if she’d understood that she would be 
worse off in the short term and only better off overall after more than 11 years. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Miss M’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Miss M agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of around £78, 
payable for 10 years. Given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she took on, I 
find Miss M’s account of what she was told by G is plausible and persuasive. The loan is a 
costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this purchase 
appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she received from G. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £924 per year. Miss M’s system has generated electricity as 
expected, but it has not provided sufficient financial benefits to pay for itself either on a 
monthly basis or within the loan term. So, the statements made to Miss M by G were not 
true. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, I think G’s 
representative would have known that Miss M’s system would not produce enough benefits 
to cover the loan repayments in the way she was told.
Considering Miss M’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown 
at the time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t disputed what she’s said, I think it likely G 
gave Miss M a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Miss M was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Miss M went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Miss M’s 
point of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Miss M in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Miss M and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Miss M and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Miss M a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Miss M’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Miss M received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so Miss M pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Miss M received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Miss M will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Miss M’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe caused Miss M some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in 
addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Miss M £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Miss M’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Miss M has 
made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Miss M’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Miss M should have paid each month towards the loan 
over that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Miss M 
*Where Miss M has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much it’s taken off. It 
should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also think the way Creation handled Miss M’s complaint has caused her trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
