DRN-3777576
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality as it had been modified by a previous 
owner.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. The car was around four years old and had a mileage of 30,885.
In September 2020 Mr C contacted the previous owner of the car who informed him he had 
carried out modifications on the car. Mr C says he was aware that due to the modifications 
and remapping that any warranty on the car would be invalid.
Mr C says that later, the car required repairs to its underside and replacing the air intake 
which cost around £1,500. Mr C didn’t make a complaint about these repairs nor kept the 
receipts as he didn’t intend at that time to make a complaint to Creation or the supplying 
dealer.
However, in July 2022 Mr C complained to Creation about the condition of the car as it had 
developed further faults and required a new engine. Creation didn’t uphold Mr C’s complaint 
as it said he hadn’t provided evidence that any modifications had been undertaken to the car 
prior to its supply to him in August 2020. Creation also said that the car had passed its MOT 
shortly before its supply and that had there been modifications these would have been noted 
via emission testing. It said that if Mr C provided further evidence then it would review his 
complaint.
Mr C was unhappy at Creation’s response and complained to this service. He said that the 
cost of repairing the car wasn’t something he could afford and so currently he wasn’t able to 
use it. Mr C also said that the cause of the engine’s failure was due to the modifications 
which he hadn’t been aware of when he’d acquired the car. He said he wouldn’t have taken 
the car if he’d known.
Our investigator didn’t recommend Mr C’s complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
Mr C wasn’t able to provide evidence about the repairs or their cause in respect of the 
underside and air intake, he had provided invoices for the car requiring a new engine, so he 
was satisfied there was a current fault with the car. However, he said just because there was 
something wrong with the car didn’t mean that it hadn’t been of satisfactory quality at its 
point of supply to Mr C.
Our investigator said that the invoices for the repairs didn’t make any comment as to the 
cause of the engine failure nor did they record the car’s current mileage. But the evidence 
indicated that Mr C had been able to use the car for two years and drive over 13,000 miles in 
that time and, in light of that, our investigator said he thought it likely the issues with the car 
had developed after its point of supply to Mr C. And as engine failure can arise for a number 
of reasons there wasn’t sufficient evidence for him to say this was due to the car having 
been modified prior to Mr C acquiring it.
In respect of the car being modified, our investigator said looking at the timeline of events, 
while Mr C hadn’t been aware the car had been modified at its point of supply, he had 
become aware shortly afterwards and hadn’t raised any complaint. So, our investigator said 
he thought that had Mr C known about the modifications he would still have gone ahead and 
acquired the car.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he hadn’t been asked to get 
proof that the car had been modified/re-mapped prior to its point of supply to him and it was 
unfair to expect him to do so. He said the dealership should have produced evidence about 
the inspection it had undertaken on the car before he’d acquired it. Mr C said passing an 
MOT didn’t mean the car hadn’t been modified. He said he had already provided enough to 
show the faults with the car.
Mr C also said he had booked an appointment with a garage specialising in this make of car 
when the ECU would be reset and he was hoping this would provide additional information 
as to the extent the vehicle had been modified.
Mr C said that it would be unusual for a car of this age and mileage and which hadn’t been 
modified to suffer engine failure.
As the parties weren’t able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C hasn’t provided any new information, so I have made my decision based on the 
evidence that has already been provided.
When looking at this complaint, I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I need to decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
Mr C has raised two issues in his complaint. Firstly, that the car he had acquired had been 
modified and he had not been made aware of that by the supplying dealer. I’ve also seen 
Mr C says that had he known about this then he wouldn’t have taken the car. The second 
issue is that the car, due to this modification wasn’t of satisfactory quality and has 
required a number of repairs including a new engine.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality. Creation may also be responsible for any statements made by the 
supplying dealer if Mr C relied on them when deciding to take the car.
While I don’t know how the car was advertised, I have seen that the supplying dealer 
queries whether the car had been modified prior to its point of supply to Mr C. It suggests 
that since Mr C didn’t raise a complaint until he had the car for around two years that he 
should provide proof of this. Mr C has provided screenshots of conversations he had with 
the previous owner via social media.
I agree the screenshots provided by Mr C of his contact with the previous owner would 
indicate some modifications were undertaken. But I don’t think it’s clear exactly what 
those entailed nor as to what was reverted/removed when the car was returned to the 
dealer when the credit agreement with that person ended. However, I think it would be fair 
to say that it is more likely than not that the car had been modified/remapped prior to the 
point of its supply to Mr C based on the evidence I have seen.
This would mean that the car that the car may have not been as described but for me to 
be satisfied a misrepresentation has occurred I would need evidence that there had been 
a false statement of fact made by the supplying dealer which had induced Mr C to enter 
into the agreement. Here I can’t reasonably say that, and I will explain why. 
I don’t know what was said between Mr C and the supplying dealership, but I don’t think 
it’s likely there was any conversation the car hadn’t been modified/remapped. And while I 
note Mr C said he wouldn’t have bought the car had he known about its past I’m afraid I 
can’t accept that. Mr C was made aware of the history of the car within one month of 
purchase but made no complaint even though he says he knew this would have 
invalidated the warranty. He even chose to pay for £1,500 worth of repairs without raising 
any issues with either the supplying dealer or Creation. So, I think it’s fair to say that Mr C 
wanted this car and even if the modifications carried out in the past had been raised, he 
would have still taken it. 
Looking at the second issue raised Mr C, I’ve seen Mr C feels strongly that the 
modifications made to the car’s engine has ultimately led to it requiring a new engine and 
that it isn’t of satisfactory quality as it isn’t as durable as would be reasonably expected.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around four years old and had a mileage of 30,885. So, some 
issues of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. I’ve seen that Mr C 
says that the car underwent £1,500 worth of repairs prior to the new engine but I don’t 
know what those repairs were as no job cards or invoices can be provided. So, I can’t 
reasonably attach any weight to those earlier repairs because I don’t know the cause 
or exact nature of them.
However, I have seen the car required a new engine as the invoices for that work 
have been provided. So, I would accept the car developed a serious fault after Mr C 
had had it for two years and had driven around 13,000 miles in it. But just because 
the car had faults by July 2022 doesn’t mean it wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Looking at the amount of time that had passed and the additional 
miles driven in the car by Mr C  I think it would be fair to say that any faults with the 
engine wouldn’t have been present or developing in August 2020. 
But even if the faults hadn’t been present or developing at the point of supply, I still 
need to consider whether the car was as reasonably durable as a reasonable person 
would have expected. Mr C says he has provided sufficient evidence to show the 
engine fault was due to the modifications and remap, but I disagree. There can be a 
number of reasons a car’s engine fails, and I would need to see some independent 
evidence that this car’s engine had been adversely affected by any modification or 
remapping it had undergone prior to Mr C’s acquiring it. I don’t have enough evidence 
to say that the engine failure was solely due to the modifications that had been 
carried out before the car was supplied to Mr C. While it is possible that modifications 
may lead to an engine wearing faster it’s also reasonable to say there could have 
been another cause. In light of the amount of time that has passed, I think it was fair 
for Creation to have asked Mr C to provide evidence as to the cause of the fault with 
the engine.
So, although the car of this age and mileage wouldn’t usually be expected to require 
a new engine, I can’t say this car wasn’t as reasonably durable as would be expected 
because I don’t know the cause of the engine fault.
I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr C but for the reasons set out 
above I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, I’m not upholding Mr C’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
