 
 
DRN-4655686 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Ms T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd defaulted her account incorrectly. 
What happened 
Ms T has had a credit agreement with Creation since November 2017. In December 2022 
and February 2023, Ms T’s payments to the account failed. On 19 March 2023, Creation 
sent her a default notice explaining that if arrears were not repaid a default would be placed 
on her credit file. As the arrears were not cleared, Creation registered a default on her file on 
19 April 2023.  
 
Ms T says she didn’t receive the default notice until May 2023 as it was sent to an old 
address. In any event, she says the default was registered too soon as her account wasn’t 
three months in arrears. After receiving the default notice, Ms T contacted Creation in June 
2023 and agreed a repayment plan. This plan initially failed due to mistakes made by 
Creation but was subsequently set up correctly. Ms T complained to Creation about the 
default, handling of the repayment plans and said the balance also appeared to be too high.  
 
Creation looked into her complaint and issued a final response. It said the account had been 
defaulted correctly. But Creation acknowledged it had made mistakes in setting up the 
arrangement and refunded charges as a result of those errors and offered £100 in 
compensation. Once the arrangement was set up, Creation said that two further payments 
were missed – in September and October 2023. It said her account balance had increased 
due to extra interest and charges being applied to the account following the missed 
payments, but confirmed she had brought the account up to date after she’d raised the 
complaint. 
 
Ms T didn’t accept Creation’s offer or what it said about the default, so she referred her 
complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She agreed with Creation 
that the default had been applied correctly and said its offer of £100 appeared a reasonable 
way to settle the dispute. Ms T didn’t accept what our investigator said. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There is no dispute that Ms T missed payments in December 2022 and February 2023. I can 
see that Creation wrote to Ms T six times between 1 January and 5 February 2023 to let her 
know about the arrears prior to sending the default notice. It used the address it held at the 
time. The notes show it also spoke with Ms T on 22 January 2023, so I think it’s reasonable 
to believe that she was aware that her account was in arrears at that point. 
 
The payment due on 29 January 2023 was made on time, but it didn’t clear the arrears that 
had accrued, so Creation continued to write to her at the address it held. As Ms T then 
missed the payment due in February 2023 – and her account had already been in arrears 
 
 
since December 2022 – Creation sent a default notice on 19 March 2023 as the account had 
been in arrears for three months. Again it used the address it had on file at the time. 
 
But Ms T says she didn’t receive the letters as they were sent to a previous address. I’ve 
asked both parties details of the addresses and when records were updated. In order to 
maintain Ms T’s anonymity, I can’t give the full details of the addresses involved, but to help 
with understanding the case, I’ll refer to the addresses by their house number. Ms T says 
she moved from 223 to 44 in July 2022 and updated her address details with Creation in 
August or September over the phone. But she says she’s unable to find the note she made 
at the time. 
 
Creation says Ms T’s address was updated on its systems on 18 July 2022 but that was to 
223, and the update to 44 was on 26 June 2023. It has provided screenshots which confirm 
the dates of the updates and addresses involved. So when Creation wrote to Ms T about the 
arrears and the default notice, it follows that the address it wrote to was 223. I can see that 
letters Ms T received after June 2023 were sent to 44. I’m satisfied therefore, that Creation 
wrote to the address it held at the time which is in line with its obligations. 
 
In any event, as I’ve said, I’m satisfied that Ms T will have been aware that payments were 
due to Creation on her account. And she was certainly aware of arrears in January, and I 
think ought reasonably to have been aware of the missed payment in February too. I’ve not 
seen anything to suggest Ms T took steps to contact Creation to discuss the missed 
payments or arrears, but I can see Creation tried to contact her using the details it held. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to 
register Ms T’s account as in default in April 2023. 
 
Ms T has said the balance of her account was showing on her credit file as higher than it 
should be. She says it was showing as £717 when she owed around £450. I’ve looked at her 
account and can see that the balance was around £717 at the end of September 2023. She 
then made payments through October 2023 to reduce the balance to approximately £450 by 
the end of that month. Ms T raised her complaint with us shortly after that. 
 
I suspect the difference in the balance with the credit file is to do with the time frames within 
which businesses update the credit reference agencies. Generally the balances seen at the 
agencies is not live and is updated every month or two – which would fit with the 
circumstances I’ve just described. I’ve not seen evidence that payments haven’t been 
applied to the account correctly, or that money has been taken incorrectly from it. The 
charges and interest applied appear to have been collected in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. If Ms T can show her account balance is incorrect, she can raise 
that with Creation. 
 
I’ve thought about what has happened since then, and it is clear Creation made several 
mistakes in setting up a repayment plan with Ms T. Creation has acknowledged these 
mistakes in its final response, refunded charges and offered £100 compensation for the 
mistakes. I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the complaint. As I’ve said, Ms T 
has rejected Creation’s offer at this stage, but if she now wishes to accept it, she should 
contact the business and I’d expect it to be paid to her.  
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Ms T’s complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2024.  
 
Richard Hale 
 
 
Ombudsman 
 
