DRN-4011509
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a laptop he bought using a running account credit 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation). 
What happened
Mr T bought a laptop and three-year care plan for £1,898 in December 2016 using a running 
account credit agreement with Creation. The laptop cost £1,749, the care plan cost £199, 
and Mr T used a £50 coupon.
Mr T tells us a fault occurred with the laptop display in June 2022, so he took it to a 
manufacturer approved outlet to be examined. He says he sent the laptop to the supplier 
and complained about its quality. Mr T says the supplier told him it was unable to repair it as 
it couldn’t obtain the parts. But it offered him a partial refund of £247.48 taking into account 
he’d been able to use the laptop for over five years. Mr T says he didn’t want to accept this 
as the supplier would keep the laptop. So he arranged to have it repaired at his own 
expense. Mr T says he would ideally like a replacement laptop as he has no confidence the 
problem won’t happen again. As a minimum he’d like to be reimbursed for the cost of repair. 
As the supplier didn’t resolve things for Mr T he contacted Creation to complain. Creation 
rejected the claim and sent Mr T a final response letter in November 2022. Mr T decided to 
bring the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didn’t think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint. She noted the manufacturer diagnosis report said We cannot tell whether this is 
fundamentally an inevitable issue from purchase. Given the laptop worked without issue for 
over five years she didn’t think it was of unsatisfactory quality. So she didn’t make any 
recommendations. 
Mr T didn’t agree. He says he thinks he’s covered for six years if there’s no adverse use of 
the laptop and it hadn’t been damaged. He points towards other consumers who’ve 
experienced the same issue. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any 
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr T 
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s 
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Mr T used a regulated running account credit agreement to purchase the laptop and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So in this case section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes Creation responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation under certain 
conditions. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory – taking into account the description of the goods, the price or other 
consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances. 
Section 9(3) of the CRA says: 
“The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods—
(a)  fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually 
supplied;
(b)  appearance and finish;
(c)  freedom from minor defects;
(d)  safety;
(e)  durability.”
In this case the laptop was new when Mr T bought it. So it should have been free from even 
minor defects and been durable. The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the 
contract at any time within the period of six months beginning with the day on which the 
goods were delivered to the consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day 
unless it’s established the goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the 
application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to 
the contract. I believe Mr T used the laptop for five and a half years without any issues. So 
I’d need to see sufficient evidence from Mr T to demonstrate the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was sold to him in order to say there’d been a breach of contract. 
I’ve therefore gone on to think about the evidence supplied relating to the diagnosis of the 
problem that Mr T obtained from the manufacturer. On the one hand, the diagnosis set out 
Mr T said he’d researched the issue and found out that it was widespread on the particular 
model he’d bought. And the manufacturer also said there was no signs the issue had been 
caused or worsened by Mr T. But on the other hand the manufacturer also said it couldn’t tell 
whether the issue was inevitable from purchase. 
Given the fault happened five and a half years after purchase, I’d like to have had much 
more certainty the fault was something that made the laptop of unsatisfactory quality when 
Mr T bought it. There’s a variety of things that can go wrong with electrical goods. But there’s 
insufficient evidence the problem was present or developing at the point of sale. While I can 
understand why Mr T was disappointed, given the time taken for the fault to manifest, I’ve 
not seen enough to demonstrate the laptop wasn’t durable. 
I note Mr T has mentioned he should be covered for six years. There is legislation in 
England and Wales that relates to there being a limitation on making certain claims within six 
years. But the legislation that’s most relevant here – the CRA – doesn’t say that goods 
purchased by consumers should be covered for six years. 
Therefore, while I sympathise with the situation, I don’t find there’s sufficient evidence of a 
breach of contract for which Creation would be liable under section 75. So I don’t have the 
grounds to direct Creation to reimburse Mr T for what went wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
