DRN-1716489
The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) declined a purchase 
he attempted to make through a running account credit facility he had with them.
What happened
Mr T attempted to buy a laptop from an electrical store in August 2019. They would not 
process a credit application at the store, so Mr T did this at home. He was approved for the 
credit, but an initial purchase was rejected by the store. A subsequent purchase attempt was 
rejected by Creation for security reasons and Mr T is upset Creation haven’t provided 
adequate reasons for that.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong. He talked to the business 
and they explained why they had chosen to reject the subsequent purchase to our 
investigator’s satisfaction. He explained that Creation were able to make commercial 
decisions about whether to extend credit and in this case he was satisfied they had not 
made an error. He explained that for commercial reasons he understood Creation would not 
want to disclose the exact information that led them to come to that decision.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator and the complaint was therefore referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T was simply trying to make a purchase and I can understand he would not have wanted 
to be sent away to create a credit agreement or have his initial purchase declined. I’m 
satisfied however, that they were the actions of the merchant and not Creation’s 
responsibility.
I’ve asked some further questions of Creation to establish what happened. Whilst there does 
appear to be an open running credit facility they’ve explained that they may also conduct 
checks on purchases that are made under that facility.
They don’t have to explain exactly why they decline transactions as that would be 
commercially sensitive information that may, in the wrong hands, help customers get around 
the checks they apply for security and for purposes of responsible lending.
In this instance they explained to Mr T that the application (purchase) was reviewed by an 
agent on the Security Team and then declined. I understand that Mr T would think this 
unusual as his previous purchase was approved. But I can understand that circumstances 
may have changed as, for instance, this was a second high value purchase made in a short 
period of time. 
Whilst, I know Mr T would like more information I think Creation have provided enough and I 
don’t therefore think they’ve done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
