DRN-2284320
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t treated his claim, brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), fairly. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr S tells us that in November 2017 he ordered a new window and two doors (back and 
front) from a company I’ll call “E”. He says the purchase was financed through a fixed sum 
loan agreement supplied by Creation. Mr S explains that when E came to fit the items the 
window was the wrong size and so wasn’t installed. And that the design of the back door 
was incorrect. He says that when he complained to E it arranged to carry out the remedial 
works but then failed to show up for the appointments. He says he’s been advised that E has 
now ceased trading. Mr S is concerned that he’s in a situation where having ordered three 
matching items he’s been left with two doors of a different design. And as he’s been left with 
his original window the two doors don’t match this either. He feels this may impact the price 
he obtains if he comes to sell the house.
Creation originally told us that it had been advised by E that Mr S had refused to allow 
remedial works to be carried out. And it was unable to assist. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 September 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint but on a different basis to our investigator. I said that in view of the 
breach of contract arising from the mismatch of the items supplied I thought a price reduction 
of 25% was appropriate. And that the total amount of interest charged should be reduced to 
reflect the lower purchase price.
Creation has replied agreeing with my provisional view. Mr S hasn’t responded. As there’s 
been no new information supplied and Creation has now changed its stance, I’m not minded 
to alter my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out 
below.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S’ complaint is that E breached the terms of the contract for the supply and fitting of the 
doors and windows. And that it then failed to put things right within a reasonable time. He 
states that this led to him experiencing serious inconvenience and financial loss.
I’m aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I’ve done 
so using my own words. I’m not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If there’s 
something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored it. I haven’t. I’m satisfied I don’t 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr S brought his claim under section 75 CCA. Briefly summarised, this applies where a 
certain type of credit is used. And it’s subject to certain financial limits which are met in this 
case. Where there’s been a breach of contract by the supplier of goods or services it offers 
the consumer a like claim against the supplier of the relevant credit.
I think it’s important to set out my role. In considering this complaint, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that Mr S might have under Section 75. Rather, I’m deciding if Creation 
has done enough to resolve Mr S’ complaint fairly. And if it hasn’t, what it now needs to do.
As Creation has accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision, I will assume it 
also accepts that there was breach of contract by E. That being the case I needn’t go into 
further detail over this aspect. Instead I’ll concentrate on what I think is a fair and reasonable 
resolution of Mr S’ complaint.
Where’s there’s a breach of contract we’d usually try to put the consumer back in the same 
position as if the breach hadn’t occurred. Normally this would mean either completing 
remedial works so that the goods conformed to contract. Or, removing all the items supplied 
and giving Mr S a full refund. As E is no longer trading it’s not practical to adopt the first 
option. And the second option would cause further disruption for Mr S. Understandably he 
doesn’t want to go through all this again. He’s agreed to keep the items supplied. In these 
circumstances, I agree with the approach of our investigator which was to apply a price 
reduction as the fairest means to compensate Mr S.
The fixed sum loan agreement states that the total cash price of the goods is £4,036. The 
cash price of the items which Mr S purchased are said by E to be £420 (window which was 
not installed); £1,333 (back door – wrong design); front door (£2,233). The separate item 
prices only total £3,986. But as E is no longer trading it’s unlikely this anomaly can be 
explained. Fortunately, the difference represents a small fraction of the total contract price.
In determining the reduced price, the full price of the window (£420) should be refunded. But 
it’s not possible to be so precise in assessing the price reduction that should apply to the 
remaining issues. Whilst no direct complaint is made about the front door Mr S points out 
that he ordered three matching items. And he’s ended up with items that don’t match. He 
also states that he wasn’t given a separate breakdown of cost per item. So he can’t explain 
why the front door is far more expensive than the back door. I don’t think that is something 
that I shall be able to resolve.
Mr S has raised the issue of a potential loss being incurred when he comes to sell the house 
due to the non-matching doors. And whilst consequential losses can be recovered following 
a breach of contract it has to be shown they arise from the breach and are a foreseeable 
result of it. At the moment there is no accurate figure for such a loss (if any) as it remains 
purely speculative. And so many other factors would have to be considered including when 
such an event might take place. But as the items relate to a small fraction of the house 
value, I’m not going to ask Creation to pay any compensation separately for this aspect.
Having thought about it, I think Mr S’ more general point about the mismatch is valid. And 
that rather than view the two doors separately I should consider the overall result. The cost 
price of the two doors collectively was £3616 (using the total agreement cost, less the stated 
item price of the window, £4036 - £420). I can’t see that Mr S has complained about the 
quality of either door and presumably if this had been a concern he’d have said so. It’s more 
a case that he didn’t get what he ordered.
I think it would be fair and reasonable to apply a price reduction of 25% but across both 
items. This amounts to £904. Taken with the cost of the window the total price reduction I 
think is fair and reasonable is £1,324.
Mr S was also required to pay interest on the loan agreement. It’s not fair and reasonable 
that he should be required to pay the full amount of interest (£2,043.44) as this was based 
on the original cash price. Now that a price reduction is being applied it’s necessary for the 
interest figure to be adjusted to take this into account.
The fairest way to resolve this is for the agreement to be re-worked taking account of the 
price reduction. This means the cash price would be £2,712. As Mr S paid a deposit of £202 
the amount of credit supplied would be reduced to £2,510.
Creation should recalculate the agreement using £2,510 (not £3,834) as the sum of credit 
provided.
Mr S has also claimed he should be entitled to compensation for poor service. As the claim 
is founded on section 75, Creation isn’t responsible for the actions of E if they don’t amount 
to a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So it wouldn’t be liable for what can be 
characterised as poor customer service by E.
Complaints handling isn’t a regulated activity and it’s not something I could ask Creation to 
compensate Mr S for on behalf of E. Usually Mr S might’ve been able to pursue a separate 
complaint against E. But as it seems E has been liquidated that option appears to have been 
removed.
And loss of time spent on a complaint is not something that would ordinarily be considered. 
Any complainant ought reasonably to anticipate that there will necessarily be time used in 
progressing the complaint.
In summary, I’m upholding Mr S’ complaint and I think it’s fair and reasonable to apply a 
price reduction in respect of the items supplied through the loan agreement of £1,324. And 
to require Creation to recalculate the interest payable based on this figure.
Putting things right
Creation should now take the following action:
Rework the finance agreement by reducing the sum borrowed by a total of £1,324. And 
recalculate the interest charge based on this reduction.
If that results in a surplus having been paid on instalments to date, then that should be 
refunded to Mr S. Or if he prefers used as a partial early settlement of the agreement.
My final decision  
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m upholding this complaint.
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take the action I’ve stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman
