DRN-2940279
The complaint
Miss H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t provide a final response 
to her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Miss H bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Miss H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Miss H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Miss H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Miss H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss H from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Miss H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Miss H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss 
H have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss H has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Miss H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Miss H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Miss H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Miss H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Miss H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
