DRN-2969139
The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a sofa she financed through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss T, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
So, if Miss T was supplied with a sofa that wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied I’d 
think there was a breach of the implied terms of the contract and I’d ask Creation to take 
some further action.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs after the first six months of ownership 
the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present when the goods were 
supplied, the point at which Creation were responsible for the quality of the goods.
Here, I’m not persuaded Miss T has been able to demonstrate that. She’s not, for instance, 
provided her own inspection report to challenge the findings of the supplier’s.
The supplier’s inspector thought the delamination/peeling was due to accidental damage and 
didn’t think the fault was there from the start.
In those circumstances I don’t think there’s sufficient evidence this sofa was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied and I don’t think it would be reasonable to tell Creation to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
