 
 
DRN-4931238 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss R has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In August 2014, Miss R bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call 
“A”, using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
In June 2021, Miss R complained to Creation via a claims management company (“CMC”). 
She said that she was told by A that the reductions in energy bills and funds generated 
through Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) would cover the cost of credit so she would be financially no 
worse off each month. But Miss R says that hasn’t happened and she’s suffered a financial 
loss because her loan repayments have exceeded the benefits of the system. Miss R’s CMC 
also said that what happened created an unfair relationship between Miss R and Creation.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response. It treated the claim as a complaint 
and dismissed it because the complaint was made too late under the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) Rules, which set out how financial businesses should handle complaints.  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss R referred her complaint to our service. 
 
When sending us its file, Creation said the claim was outside of our jurisdiction due to the 
time limits under DISP, and that Miss R had made the claim too late for Creation to have any 
liability. 
 
Our Investigator considered Miss R’s complaint, they ultimately thought that:  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Miss R and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Miss R keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Miss R had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding.  
 
Miss R accepted the investigator’s view.  
 
Creation didn’t respond. So, I’ve been asked to make a decision on this complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold the complaint. Miss R accepted 
the provisional decision, but Creation has not responded. As such, my final decision is in line 
 
 
with my provisional one.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint.  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Miss R’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Miss R’s s.75 claim 
on 2 June 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Miss R 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 2 February 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss R. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 2 February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
My findings on the merits of the complaint  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by A can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming A to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by A for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss R.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened 
 
 
 
Miss R has said that she was told by A’s representative that the reductions in energy bills 
and funds generated through Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) would cover the cost of credit so she 
would be financially no worse off each month.  
 
The only document available from the time of sale is the credit agreement. This sets out how 
much Miss R agreed to pay for the system. She says she was coming into some money and 
offered to pay for the system outright but was persuaded to take the loan given the system 
benefits would cover the loan repayments.  
 
The credit agreement understandably does not set out the expected benefits of the system. 
Miss R confirms that the sales documents she was given have been lost. But that they did 
not contain any written estimates of the benefits. So, she had to rely on what she was told by 
the sales representative.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Miss R’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Miss R left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £98, payable for ten years. I find Miss R’s account of what she was told 
by A is credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and she says 
she would not have found this purchase appealing had she not been given the assurances 
of the system paying for itself.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,190 per year. From the evidence provided it is clear that the 
system has not generated benefits at that level. And looking at how much electricity the 
system has generated (around 2,642 kWh in the first year) I think the salesperson ought to 
have known that the system was not capable of producing such annual benefits within the 
first ten years.  
 
Considering all the available evidence, and that Creation hasn’t disputed Miss R’s 
recollection of events, I think it likely A gave Miss R a false and misleading impression of the 
self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider A’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Miss R was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that A’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Miss R went into the transaction. Either way, I think A’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Miss R’s 
point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for A’s negotiations with Miss R in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Miss R and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would not otherwise have taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and other complaint points  
 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Miss R’s s.75 complaint and the other complaint points made. This doesn’t stop me from 
reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Miss R and Creation’s relationship arising out of A’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Miss R a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of A’s assurances. That is, that Miss R’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Miss R received from the system over the ten-year 
term of the loan, so Miss R pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Miss R received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings.  
 
Miss R will need to provide Creation with up-to-date details of her electricity generation 
meter reading and, where available, all relevant FIT statements and electricity bills. But 
Creation can use reasonable assumptions for periods where evidence of the actual benefits 
is not available. 
 
Finally, I think that Creation’s failure to consider the fairness of its relationship with Miss R 
when responding to her caused her some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this 
Creation should also pay Miss R additional compensation as set out below. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold Miss R’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right by doing the following:  
 
• 
Calculate the total payments Miss R has made towards the solar panel system up 
until the date of settlement – A 
• 
Use Miss R’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received up until 
the original loan term* – B 
• 
Calculate the difference between what Miss R actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment from the 
date of overpayment until the date of settlement of the complaint** – C 
• 
Pay C to Miss R 
• 
Use Miss R’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she will receive for the 
period between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan. 
• 
Pay Miss R £100 additional compensation 
 
 
 
*Where Miss R has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculation 
using known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Miss R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
