 
 
DRN-5207084 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd “Creation” sought to collect 
payments under a credit agreement before the product was fully delivered and installed. 
 
What happened 
Mr W bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in early 2022. The purchase 
was funded by a loan from Creation, and Mr W’s complaint concerns whether Creation 
sought payment under the loan agreement too early. Mr W alleges that the installer did not 
complete the installation in September 2022, as claimed by Creation but in May 2023. 
Creation does not collect payments under its loan agreements until the solar panel system 
have been delivered and installed.  
 
Mr W says a satisfaction note sent by the supplier to Creation to trigger the collection of 
payments under the credit agreement was signed fraudulently as he did not sign it. He says 
Creation should not have sought repayment of the finance until the system was fully installed 
in May 2023. He wanted to void the agreement in full and remove the account history from 
his credit file. He wanted to set up and sign a new credit agreement to pay for the system 
that was installed.  
Creation said it repeatedly checked with the supplier when the installation was complete, 
and it confirmed this was September 2022, so it correctly sought repayment. So, it did not 
uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this Mr W referred the matter to our service.  
Mr W’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didn’t recommend the 
complaint to be upheld as she said it looked like the system was delivered and installed on 
the roof in September 2022. She said if Mr W was unhappy with the installation, he could 
raise a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act, but in the meantime payments were 
due.  
 
Mr W disagreed. He feels that the contract was not fulfilled as the goods hadn’t been fully 
delivered and installed and Creation had sought repayment before the supplier delivered all 
the goods and services under the contract. He also felt the investigator didn’t address his 
concerns over the satisfaction note being fraudulently completed which he felt undermined 
the validity of his agreement. Our investigator explained that she wasn’t looking at a 
complaint against the supplier and couldn’t assess whether the supplier had fraudulently 
signed it.  
 
As the complaint couldn’t be resolved by our investigator, I’ve been asked to make a 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by our investigator, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
 
 
Firstly, I wanted to address that while I understand Mr W feels the satisfaction note was 
fraudulently signed, as explained by our investigator, we are not looking at a complaint 
against the supplier – but against Creation the finance provider. Creation does not seek to 
recover any payments under the agreement until the system has been installed. So, the 
most important issue is whether the system was installed, rather than whether the 
satisfaction note was signed. The satisfaction note is part of its process, but with this note, it 
is seeking to check whether the system has been installed or not.  
 
On receipt of Mr W’s concerns, Creation repeatedly checked with the supplier if the 
installation had been completed, and it confirmed it had been completed in September 2022. 
So even if the satisfaction note didn’t exist, Creation could have continued to try to collect 
payments.  
 
I understand Mr W’s concerns and frustrations over the satisfaction note, but as explained 
above, I’m not investigating the supplier as part of this complaint. I’m considering the acts of 
Creation, and it sought to collect payments after confirming with the supplier that the system 
had been installed.  
 
While I understand Mr W’s testimony is that the system wasn’t fully installed until May 2023, 
the supplier has repeatedly told Creation that it was completed in September 2022. I can see 
a NAPIT certificate that was sent to Mr W after the installation – and this also notes the 
installation date as September 2022. 
 
I’ve looked at the contact notes from Creation and from the supplier – and nothing supports 
the claim that the installation wasn’t completed as the supplier says in September 2022. So, 
while I sympathise with Mr W – I’m afraid the evidence doesn’t support his testimony and I 
have to make a decision based on the available evidence.  
 
I’ve also thought about Mr W’s claim that the credit agreement was invalid because of the 
use of the satisfaction note but I’m afraid I don’t agree. The credit agreement was signed by 
Mr W in February 2022, and it looks like everything was done correctly at the time. Creation 
is entitled to collect payments after the system is installed and while the satisfaction note is 
part of its process in checking that, ultimately, its decision to collect is based on whether the 
system is installed or not. 
 
So even if Mr W didn’t sign the satisfaction note, based on the available evidence, it looks 
like the system was installed in September 2022. So, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly in 
subsequently trying to collect payments and I don’t think the satisfaction note has 
undermined its validity.  
 
As our investigator explained, if Mr W felt the installation wasn’t completed with reasonable 
care and skill, or if it was faulty in any way, he was able to raise a section 75 claim for this. 
But the goods on the whole had been delivered and installed, so the payments were due.  
 
While I’ve carefully considered Mr W’s testimony, I’m afraid there simply isn’t sufficient 
evidence to support his claim that the installation wasn’t completed in September 2022, and 
Creation acted unfairly by trying to collect payments after this date. So, I don’t think there’s 
sufficient evidence here to uphold this complaint. 
 
I understand Mr W is concerned about his credit file, but he’s also confirmed that he hasn’t 
made the payments due under the agreement. Creation is obligated to report any 
information to credit reference agencies accurately so as long as it’s done that, it hasn’t 
acted incorrectly. As I’ve found that Creation acted correctly in seeking repayment, I can’t 
reasonably find that it shouldn’t have reported any missed payments etc. Mr W’s credit file 
should accurately reflect how the payments have and haven’t been made under the 
 
 
agreement. If he hasn’t already done so, I encourage Mr W to now contact Creation to agree 
a way forward with repaying his loan.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2025. 
  
 
Asma Begum 
Ombudsman 
 
