DRN-3032784
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t fully respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in April 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t, and breach of contract 
due to installation issues that allowed water into the property. Mr S incurred costs to have 
the solar panels reinstalled correctly so no further water ingress would occur.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.  She also considered that the damage caused to Mr S’s roof when the panels 
were installed amounted to breach of contract and recommended that Creation should 
reimburse Mr S for the resulting losses. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an on-
going additional cost for him.  I do not believe he would have entered into the contract had 
he been aware of the true impact on him. 
I also consider that when Mr S entered into the contract with the installer for panels, he did 
so on the understanding that the work would be carried out with appropriate care and 
attention and that his property would not be damaged by the installation.  All of the evidence 
I’ve seen supports his assertion that his roof was damaged by the installation, which 
amounts to a breach of contract.  Mr S has also helpfully provided a breakdown of the costs 
which were solely the result of the poor installation. 
Mr S told Creation of the installation issues in February 2020, with photos, and a report from 
his builders in January 2021. Having had no further response from Creation, Mr S went 
ahead and had the installation issues rectified, paying for this himself. I think that was 
reasonable, as the longer the issue was left, the more damage was likely to occur to his 
property and the higher the cost of repair. I think Creation had a reasonable opportunity to 
arrange for the installation to be inspected or take other action – given it was told about the 
issue in February 2020 and the repairs weren’t carried out until the following year.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
In addition to this Creation should pay Mr S £13,200, being the cost of the work done to 
rectify the installation issues, plus 8% simple interest per year from the time Mr S paid for 
the work until Creation makes the settlement. This is to compensate Mr S for the time he 
has been without this money.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
