DRN-3953140
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) responded 
to claims she’d made under section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘the CCA’), 
and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout. 
What happened
In September 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£5,750 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “G”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £8,919.86 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £74.33. I understand the system was installed in September 2013. 
In May 2021 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system was 
mis-sold. She said G told her she’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system 
generated through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments. She said G told her the 
system would increase her property value; her bills would go down; and that it could be 
financed. She said the main reason for purchasing the system was to reduce her monthly 
overheads and have an additional income from the surplus energy the system was 
supposed to generate. She said G sold the system as being self-funding and was pressured 
into taking out the agreement. She also said Creation failed to carry out a suitable and 
sufficient creditworthiness assessment and she wasn’t given an adequate explanation of 
how the credit agreement worked. 
Mrs S said the system was misrepresented and believed G’s statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Creation responded in its final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought G had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought G 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mrs S 
and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mrs S pays no more than that, and she keeps 
the system. 
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs S’s s.75 claim 
in October 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs S 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in February 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here, the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in September 2013. Mrs S brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
in May 2021. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with it. Given 
this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mrs S says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.  
I’m conscious the fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the 
interest charged; the total amount payment; the term; and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. I think this was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what 
was required to be repaid towards the agreement.
We’ve not been supplied a contract or other point of sale documentation that set out the 
estimated benefits of the system. So I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mrs S to 
compare her total costs against the financial benefits she was allegedly being promised. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mrs S had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before G contacted her. Mrs S has said she only agreed to the purchase because G told her 
the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mrs S would have agreed to the installation if her monthly outgoings 
would increase significantly. 
In all the circumstances, I’ve not seen G adequately informed Mrs S the system wouldn’t be 
self-funding. Moreover, we’ve seen that G’s website from the time mentioned things like free 
electricity during the day; tax free income from government and electricity provider; earn up 
to £1,000 per year; 8-12% tax free return per year; 20-year guaranteed income; solar panels 
that pay for themselves; amongst other things – which I think would support Mrs S’s 
allegation G told her the system would be self-funding. On balance, I think Mrs S’s testimony 
is plausible and convincing. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £900 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s a problem with the 
system. Based on the generation readings I’ve seen it looks like it’s slightly overperformed. 
But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mrs S achieved the benefits required to make the 
system self-funding within the term of the agreement. I therefore find the representations that 
were likely made weren’t true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it 
clear the system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement during the 10-year term. 
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, the information on G’s website, and 
the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely G gave Mrs S a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her system benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
that the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement is now paid off, I think there’s only one viable 
option for my directions. 
I note Mrs S has raised further complaint points but, given my directions, I don’t find I need 
to deal with those points separately. Creation should also be aware that whether my 
determination constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of the 
ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs S has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mrs S

Pay Mrs S £100 compensation
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
