DRN-3696059
The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd haven’t properly dealt with a Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim (‘S75 claim’) about a faulty bed. In this complaint Mr T is 
assisted by his representative but for ease I will refer to Mr T throughout. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr T ordered a number of items from a bed retailer. He entered into a 0% fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation for the cost. Delivery of the items was due on 16 
September 2021, but on 15 September 2021 the retailer advised that one of the items, a 
Murphy bed frame was delayed until November. Mr T was unhappy with this but agreed to 
the remainder of the order being delivered on 16 September 2021 as he had disposed of his 
old beds.
On 16 September 2021 the base intended to be used with the Murphy bedframe was found 
to be faulty and required screws and a plate to complete assembly. Mr T was unable to use 
the bed as it wasn’t correctly assembled. Mr T contacted the retailer that day via email and 
stated that he wanted to cancel the order for the Murphy frame and base and receive a full 
refund for this part of the order. It seems that the supplier did nothing to action this and on 29 
September 2021 Mr T complained to Creation that the Murphy frame had not been delivered 
and the base was faulty. 
Creation responded on 23 November 2021 that it was awaiting information from the retailer 
and could not provide a response to his complaint. Mr T was advised in this letter of his 
rights to make a referral to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that Creation hadn’t acted fairly. They 
thought that Mr T had not received part of an order that he had paid for and that an item had 
been delivered that was not of satisfactory quality. They recommended that these items, 
together with additional ancillary products bought at the time to use with this bed and frame 
were collected and the items refunded from Mr T’s finance agreement. They also thought 
that Creation should pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failure to deal with Mr 
T’s S75 claim.
Creation provided a response to the investigator’s view and asked for further information it 
had received from the retailer to be taken into account. The investigator took the information 
into consideration and issued a second view which indicated that their conclusions were 
essentially unchanged and that Mr T should have a refund for the base, frame and mattress 
together with the ancillary products purchased. Mr T provisionally accepted the investigator’s 
conclusions but only if Creation complied swiftly. Creation attempted to call the investigator 
but were asked to call back during working hours. As the parties haven’t been able to agree 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.          
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that I have summarised this complaint and I haven’t commented in detail on 
each and every piece of information I’ve seen. The background is familiar to the parties and 
in this decision I will focus on giving reasons for my decision rather than rehearse the facts. 
So, if there is something I haven’t mentioned it doesn’t mean I’ve overlooked it.
When reaching my decision I am required to take into account the relevant law although I am 
not required to apply it in the same way as a court and I need to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In this case I am considering S75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the 
provider of finance for the bed, Mr T has a like claim against Creation for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I am satisfied the circumstances apply here.
It isn’t disputed that the bed frame was never delivered and that the base had a fault which 
required repair which hasn’t been carried out. The dispute between the parties is whether Mr 
T is entitled to a refund for those two items together with the ancillary products bought to be 
used with that bed. 
I think that Mr T made it very clear on the day of delivery when the base was delivered and 
found to need a repair that he wanted to cancel the order. Although the retailer suggests that 
it tried to set up a repair, this did not take place and the evidence I have seen suggests that 
the retailer agreed that the order could be cancelled and Mr T’s complaint was forwarded to 
the cancellation team. 
Although the retailer suggests it tried to contact Mr T for a repair of the base there is no 
evidence that this was ever done. There is no email or letter to Mr T to confirm this course of 
action. In addition, the retailer seemingly agreed to cancel delivery of the murphy frame 
given it was outside the original timescale. The representations from the retailer and 
Creation are at times contradictory and inaccurate and do not address the issues raised.
I think that Mr T is entitled to reject the base as it was delivered with a fault and he indicated 
on the same day that he wished to cancel the order. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows 
a consumer to reject the faulty goods within 30 days. I think that Mr T was entitled to reject 
the base because of the fault and the frame has never been delivered. It follows that Mr T is 
entitled to a refund of those items. 
I agree with the investigator that the items purchased for use specifically with the rejected 
frame and base should also be refunded as they were ancillary products. 
I know that Mr T has requested as an alternative solution a repair and a discount on the 
whole order but this is not something that I think is fair or reasonable. The other items in the 
order were for use in relation to a different bed and were delivered on time and fault free. I 
know that Mr T would like to exchange the king size mattress under the retailer’s mattress 
guarantee but that it not something I can ask Creation to be responsible for as it is not part of 
the s75 claim. Similarly, I can’t ask Creation to discount items that are not faulty. 
   
Putting things right
So, having considered everything I uphold this complaint. I think that Creation should collect 
the faulty base and the ancillary items at no cost to Mr T at a convenient date.
These ancillary items are:
Tempur double mattress
Bed cover additional item
Bed cover primary item
Pack 4 pillows
Cooltouch pillows
Double bed mattress protector 
The finance agreement should then be re-worked to remove the above ancillary items 
together with the “sleepmotion” base and “murphy” frame and the assembly charge and any 
finance interest or charges relating to these.
Any adverse information recorded on Mr T’s credit file in relation to this agreement should be 
removed. 
I think that Creation have not dealt with Mr T’s request to reject the goods in a timely way 
and have not done enough to assist Mr T with this. This has caused him significant upset 
and stress and I agree with the investigator that Creation should pay £200 to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
