DRN-4303681
The complaint
Miss J complains about the way in which Creation Consumer Finance Ltd dealt with her in 
response to a claim she made through the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).
What happened
Miss J acquired a sofa from a retailer “D” using finance provided by Creation. On taking 
delivery she raised concerns that the sofa didn’t conform to contract and wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality. She says she sought to reject the sofa, but that D arranged for an 
inspection, which confirmed defects. Miss J says she felt coerced by D into accepting a 
repair rather than the replacement she wanted. She contacted Creation setting out her 
concerns in a series of emails.
Creation has said it accepted Miss J’s claim of breach of contract, but declined her request 
for replacement or a full refund. It noted that D had already started the repair process and 
had offered Miss J £300. Creation said this was a fair outcome. Miss J didn’t agree and 
referred matters to us.
Our investigator thought it appropriate to recommend that Creation pay Miss J £100 in 
recognition of the stress and inconvenience she experienced due to its handling of her claim. 
She didn’t think Creation had communicated appropriately or consistently with Miss J, and 
felt that it should have done more to ensure D carried out what it had proposed to do. 
However, the investigator thought that agreement had been reached to remedy the breach 
of contract, so she didn’t recommend Creation take any further action in this respect.
Creation accepted the investigator’s recommendation. But Miss J did not. She felt she’d 
been put to a good deal of trouble in researching and corresponding in relation to her claim, 
and that she should be consulted as to what would represent fair compensation. Miss J said 
Creation had shut down her claim by issuing a final response to her complaint, which she 
considered unethical.
Miss J was also unhappy that the £300 proposed by D would only be refunded once the 
repair was carried out. She expressed concern that if she allowed the repair, there was a risk 
that this would be unsatisfactory, leaving her back in the original position. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s accepted by all parties that Miss J had a claim in breach of contract, and that section 75 
applied to the transaction such that she could make that claim against Creation.
It’s also apparent that, in the course of her dealings with D, Miss J agreed – for whatever 
reason – to a repair. She might have done so because of the actions of D, or because D 
offered a sum as a price reduction. I don’t need to establish why Miss D agreed to this; her 
breach of contract claim against Creation arises from the quality of the sofa for which 
Creation provided the finance. That doesn’t make it responsible for D’s post-sale actions.
But under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”), the fact that Miss J agreed to a repair is 
relevant to how I’d expect Creation to have approached her claim. The CRA1 says that “a 
consumer who requires or agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace 
them, or exercise the short-term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to 
repair them (unless giving the trader that time would cause significant inconvenience to the 
consumer).”
Miss J contacted Creation with her concerns on 14 February 2023, having already agreed to 
D’s proposal to repair the sofa. That agreement affected her right to reject the sofa or have it 
replaced, at least until a reasonable period of time had been provided for D to repair it. I 
don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to point this out in its email to Miss J a couple of 
days later, once it had been in contact with D.
I appreciate Miss J clearly had (and continues to have) strong feelings about the way in 
which she felt Creation was dealing with her claim. This comes across from her 
correspondence with the firm, particularly as set out in her letter to Creation dated 3 March. 
However, having considered all Miss J said in that letter, I’m not persuaded it means 
Creation dealt with her claim unfairly. It was entitled to take the approach it did to its 
investigation and the evidence it considered material to dealing with the claim.
When Miss J raised her claim, Creation told her it would look into matters and aim to provide 
her with its response within eight weeks. In practice, Creation dealt with the claim and issued 
its response well within that timescale. It set out is position on 8 March; a little more than 
three weeks after Miss J first contacted it. I can see that in the interim, Creation was 
providing Miss J with updates when she contacted it, as well as corresponding with D. I see 
no reason to criticise Creation in the approach it took to investigating Miss J’s claim, or with 
the conclusions that it reached.
However, I take Miss J’s point that the lines between her claim in breach of contract and her 
complaint about Creation’s handling of that claim became blurred. That meant many of the 
complaint points in her 3 March letter weren’t covered in Creation’s response. While I 
wouldn’t describe this as ‘unethical’, I accept Creation could have done a significantly better 
job in terms of maintaining separation of the issues, which might have alleviated at least 
some of Miss J’s concerns. I don’t find this was fundamental to the overall outcome, but it 
caused some degree of concern to Miss J such that it warrants compensation.
I’m satisfied the £100 our investigator proposed an appropriate sum in this respect. While I’m 
fully aware Miss J feels differently about this amount, it must be remembered that our role is 
to provide an objective view, including assessing any suitable level of compensation. A 
complainant’s perspective is useful, but almost inevitably subjective. As such, I hope Miss J 
will understand why it’s for us to form our own opinion as to appropriate compensation. 
Miss J can decide for herself whether she wishes to accept the proposed sum.
On a final note, I’m conscious our investigator’s assessment suggested that Creation should 
exercise some sort of oversight to ensure D carry out the repair and pay Miss J the £300. 
Miss J has also alluded to concerns over what D proposed. As I’ve already noted, the way in 
which section 75 operates doesn’t serve to make Creation responsible for D’s post-sale 
actions. I don’t find that concerns over whether D is doing what it said it would are something 
for either Creation or for our service to enforce.
1 Section 23(6) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
As I understand it, Miss J’s consumer rights are preserved in the event the repair isn’t 
effective or isn’t carried out within a reasonable period of time – subject, of course, to D 
being permitted access to the sofa to do so. I appreciate she might have concerns over such 
a repair, but that is what the CRA provides. I see no basis on which it would be reasonable 
for me to require Creation to provide assurances other than those to which she’s already 
entitled.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle Miss J’s complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay her £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
