 
 
DRN-4920688 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In July 2015, Mr H bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “G”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
In November 2021, Mr H complained to Creation through a claims management company. 
He said that he was told by G that the income and savings from the system would cover the 
loan repayments, so he would be no worse off each month. However, he says that hasn’t 
happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss as a result. Mr H also said that what happened 
at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between him and Creation.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response. It dismissed the complaint 
because it said it had been made too late under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which 
set out how financial businesses should deal with complaints.  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. When doing 
so his claims management company said that under Section 32 of the Limitation Act his 
claim was made in time.  
 
When Creation sent us its file, it also said that Mr H’s claim was out of time under the 
relevant legislation.  
 
Our Investigator considered Mr H’s complaint, they ultimately thought that:  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr H and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr H keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr H had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was 
effectively self-funding over the ten-year loan term.  
 
Mr H accepted the investigator’s view.  
 
Creation reiterated that it thought the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction due to the 
time limits that apply. And that if we disagreed and upheld the complaint, the redress should 
follow the approach taken by the courts in a case known as “Hodgson”.  
 
 
 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was planning to uphold the complaint. I 
explained my reasons for this, which differed slightly to those of our Investigator. Mr H 
remained satisfied with this outcome, but Creation didn’t respond within the given deadline. 
So, my final decision is in line with my provisional one.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr H’s s.75 claim 
on 22 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr H brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 10 January 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr H. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 10 January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
My findings on the merits of the complaint  
 
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
 
 
What happened 
 
Mr H has said that he was told by G’s representative that the income and savings from the 
system would cover the loan repayments, so he would be no worse off each month. I’ve 
looked at the documents provided by Mr H to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. There was not.  
 
The credit agreement made clear what Mr H had agreed to pay for the system, but I have 
not seen anything from the time of sale to indicate the estimated income and savings of the 
system would be less than the monthly loan repayments. So, I think that Mr H would’ve 
relied on what he was told by G’s representative.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr H’s recollection of events. Yet Mr H 
left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
around £55, payable for ten years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr H’s 
account of what he was told by G to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-
term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he 
not been given the reassurances he’s said he received from G.  
 
For the system, to pay for itself, they would need to produce combined savings and FIT 
income of around £667 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr H’s system 
produced this. So, these statements were not true. I think G’s representative must 
reasonably have been aware that Mr H’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level – and that the system would not pay for itself in the way Mr H was told. 
 
Considering Mr H’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed Mr H’s recollection of what happened, 
I think it likely G gave Mr H a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of 
the solar panel system.  
 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr H was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr H went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr H 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would not 
otherwise have taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint   
 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr H’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair and 
reasonable decision.   
 
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr H a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of G’s assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that, I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mr H’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mr H has lost out and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for 
Mr H. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the system over the ten-year 
term of the loan, so Mr H pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. If Mr H 
has not received FIT payments and cannot do so in future, such payments should not be 
included in the calculation.  
 
Mr H will need to provide Creation with up-to-date details of his electricity generation meter 
reading and, where available, all relevant FIT statements and electricity bills. But Creation 
can use reasonable assumptions for periods where evidence of the actual benefits is not 
available. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to consider the fairness of its relationship with Mr H 
when responding to him caused him some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this 
Creation should also pay Mr H additional compensation as set out below. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mr H’s complaint.  
 
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr H has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A 
 
• 
Use Mr H’s meter reading, bills, and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he 
received, up until the date of settlement* – B 
 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference between what he actually paid (A) and what 
he should have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment 
from the date of overpayment until the date of settlement** – C 
 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr H 
 
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 
 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan. 
 
• 
Pay Mr H an additional amount of £100 compensation.  
 
* Where Mr H has not been able to provide all the details of his electricity bills and/or FIT 
benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculation using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
Mr H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
