DRN-4119465
The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who I’ll call Creation, shouldn’t have 
charged him interest on a Buy Now Pay Later transaction. He’s also upset that they made 
adverse reports to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I don’t think Creation have done anything wrong here. I’ll 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In order to avoid interest on his November 2019 sofa purchase, the fixed sum loan 
agreement Mr T signed with Creation explained that he needed to pay the balance of £2,300 
before 24 November 2020 (the Special Offer Date or “SOD”). 
It’s not disputed that Mr T didn’t make his payment in time, but Mr T says there were reasons 
why he couldn’t do that. He’s explained that he called Creation but was unable to pass 
security as he didn’t know his agreement number. He said that as soon as he received 
notification of his agreement number he made the payment and that it was therefore unfair 
for Creation to subsequently charge interest and to report adverse information to his credit 
file.
It was Mr T’s responsibility to make payment if he wanted to avoid interest being applied to 
his account. I’ve been provided with a copy of the credit agreement that was signed 
electronically by Mr T on 24 November 2019, the agreement number is clearly stated in the 
right hand corner, and I therefore think it’s reasonable to expect Mr T to have been able to 
quote it. I can also see that Creation applied a seven day period after the SOD in which 
they’ve said they would have accepted a payment without holding Mr T accountable. But as 
Mr T didn’t contact them to ask for the agreement number until 30 November and was aware 
he didn’t have that number by at least the 24 November 2020 (the SOD), I don’t think it was 
unfair of Creation to add interest to the account in line with the original agreement.
I don’t therefore think Creation were unreasonable to apply interest to his account. If 
payments haven’t been made towards the fixed sum loan I wouldn’t think Creation were 
unreasonable to do that, or to report the credit agreement to Mr T’s credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
