DRN-2045635
The complaint
Ms T’s complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) has 
handled direct debit arrangements on her account – which left her owing more than she 
thought she did. 
What happened
In 2018, Ms T bought electrical goods on a “buy now, pay later” plan.  Credit for the plan was 
provided by Creation.  
Under the plan, no interest was payable if full payment was made within six months. 
Otherwise, interest would be charged, and payments could be made on a monthly basis.  
A direct debit mandate, which would allow Creation to take payments from Ms T’s bank 
account, was attached to the credit agreement.
Ms T didn’t make any payments within the first six months.  So Creation began to charge 
interest on what she owed, and to collect payments from the account detailed in the direct 
debit mandate.  In addition, Ms T made extra payments using her debit card.
In August 2019, Creation was contacted by a third party.  The third party said that payments 
were being taken from their account without their authority.  These payments had been 
credited to Ms T’s account.  Because they were disputed, the payments were reversed, and 
the direct debit cancelled.
In September 2019, Ms T noticed the balance on her account had gone up, rather than 
down.  So she called Creation to find out why.  Creation told her this was because the 
interest free period had ended, so interest had been added to the amount she owed.  They 
didn’t tell Ms T that the direct debits which had been credited to her account had been 
reversed.
During the call, Creation asked Ms T if they could reinstate the direct debits.  She agreed 
they could.  Creation didn’t check the details with Ms T.  So they reactivated the third party’s 
details.  
As a result, further payments were taken from the third party’s account.  These were again 
disputed – and the payments were reversed.
Ms T complained to Creation.  She said that the direct debit had been set up without her 
permission. And that interest had been added to the account when she’d been told that 
wouldn’t happen.  Creation investigated and wrote to Ms T with their findings.  They said 
they’d not found any evidence that Ms T had been told no interest would be payable – so, as 
per the terms and conditions, interest had been charged once the interest free period had 
ended.  And they said that the direct debit had been reinstated during her call of September 
2019.  So they didn’t uphold her complaint.
Ms T wasn’t satisfied, so she brought her complaint to us.  She said she’d been told the 
direct debits had been reversed because an indemnity had been requested.   But she’d 
never made that request – and her bank had no record of this.  And no payments had gone 
back to her account.  She said she’d tried to sort this out with Creation but hadn’t been able 
to.
Our investigator looked at the complaint.  He found that the details on Ms T’s direct debit 
mandate weren’t right – they gave the sort code for one of her accounts, but the account 
number for another. So the payments which had been reversed had actually come from 
someone else’s account – which is why they hadn’t been returned to Ms T.  
He didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong by using the account details given on the 
direct debit mandate.  But he did think that, when Ms T had spoken to Creation in September 
2019 about reinstating the direct debit, they should’ve checked the details they had with her. 
Instead, they just re-activated the details they had – which were wrong.  Our investigator 
thought Creation should pay Ms T £75 compensation for this.
Ms T asked that an ombudsman make a final decision on her complaint.  So I’ve been asked 
to do that.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I’m upholding Ms T’s complaint.  I’ll explain why.
Ms T’s clearly been confused by Creation’s handling of her account. I can understand why – 
both our investigator and I have had to look very carefully at the evidence to see what’s 
happened.  
Having done that, I’ve seen that the account details on the direct debit mandate attached to 
Ms T’s credit agreement are different from the details she gave our investigator – the 
account number’s the same, but the sort code is different.  Ms T gave our investigator the 
details in circumstances where she knew they’d be used to check what had happened. So I 
think she’d have taken particular care to make sure they were right.  I’m persuaded by this 
that the details on the direct debit mandate are wrong.
And it’s clear from the indemnity request received from the third party that those details in 
fact belonged to someone else.  When they were told this, Creation reversed the payments 
and adjusted the balance on the account they’d been credited to – which was Ms T’s 
account. That was why her balance went up.  
Creation’s records show that they wrote to Ms T telling her about the indemnity requests.  
Ms T says she didn’t receive those letters.
I agree with our investigator that Creation didn’t do anything wrong in reversing the 
payments that had been made to Ms T’s account. And I’m satisfied they took steps to advise 
Ms T what they’d done.  It’s unfortunate that Ms T didn’t get those letters – but I can’t hold 
Creation responsible for that. 
But I don’t think they should’ve simply reinstated the direct debit without checking the 
payment details with Ms T.  It’s clear they knew there’d been a problem with the direct debit 
payments.  And the direct debit was reinstated during a phone call. So it would’ve been 
reasonable for Creation to check the details with Ms T when they were speaking to her about 
it.  It was an opportunity to stop the same thing happening again – which Creation missed.
Putting things right
I’ve thought carefully about what should happen in this case to put things right.  Ms T 
believes she’s not been given credit for all the payments she’s made.  So she thinks she’s 
due some repayment.
Our investigator asked Ms T for copies of her bank statements so I could see if any direct 
debits had been paid out of her bank account.  But Ms T hasn’t provided any.  So I’ve had to 
rely on the information from Creation to make my decision.  That showed me that the 
indemnity request came from a third party – not Ms T.  So the payments received would’ve 
been returned to that account.  Without any evidence to show me anything different, I can 
only conclude that Ms T didn’t make any direct debit payments - whatever her intention.  So 
I’m not satisfied she paid any more than she owed to Creation.  And for that reason, I’m not 
deciding that Creation should make any refund to her.
But I do agree with our investigator that Creation caused Ms T confusion by not checking the 
account details they had for her when she called them in September 2019.  Had they done 
so, it would have given Ms T the opportunity to give the correct details, and avoid the second 
indemnity request being made.  I think Creation should compensate Ms T for causing that 
confusion.  And I agree with our investigator that £75 is the right amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms T’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and directing them to pay Ms T £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman
