DRN-3053334
The complaint
Ms F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Ms F bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Ms F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms F fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Ms F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms F from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that. I understand Ms F 
has recently advised she no longer lives at the address where the solar panels were 
installed. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms F is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Ms F accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Ms F by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Ms F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Ms F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT)
scheme. But Ms F’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and she has not
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms F have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Ms F and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms F and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms F accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Ms F has settled the loan, Creation should pay Ms F the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Ms F has settled the loan by refinancing, Ms F should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms F receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms F receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
