DRN-4222621
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has treated her unfairly in 
relation to a purchase she made using finance provided by it.
What happened
Mrs E purchased brand-new goods online from a third party retailer I will refer to as “C”. Mrs 
E used finance provided by Creation to pay for the goods.
Once Mrs E received the goods she found that the goods were not working as they should. 
Therefore Mrs E called the manufacturer of the goods. She spent 45 minutes on the phone 
with the manufacturer trying to sort out the problem with the goods. Eventually, the 
manufacturer checked the details of the goods and told her not only were the goods second-
hand they were also out of warranty. Shocked Mrs E complained to C.
C accepted that the goods had been sold to Mrs E as brand-new it also appeared to accept 
that the goods were second-hand, so it agreed to refund the full amount Mrs E paid, (as far 
as I am aware Mrs E has already received this refund).
However, Mrs E would have preferred a like-for-like replacement, but C could not provide 
this (the goods were out of stock on its site, at that point). C did however offer to cover the 
difference in price between the original goods and any replacement, provided the 
replacement cost no more than a certain amount, but this was not acceptable to Mrs E. 
Mrs E ended up buying a replacement for the goods (the replacement was a higher spec 
than the goods). The replacement goods cost around £70 more than the original goods. As a 
result, Mrs E wanted C to compensate her for the difference in price. She also wanted C to 
pay her £50 for distress and inconvenience. Mrs E’s reasoning was that she would not have 
had to spend £70 extra if C provided the goods it was supposed to have done. So she’d 
made a loss which C ought to be responsible for. Moreover, Mrs E spent 45 fruitless minutes 
on the phone with the manufacturer of the goods. This call had only been necessary 
because of C’s mistakes. And she’d been let down by C who she’d trusted. All of which 
caused her upset which she ought to be compensated for. C declined Mrs E’s request. 
Dissatisfied with the response from C, Mrs E turned to Creation to put things right. In coming 
to Creation Mrs E relied on the rights she believes she has against Creation because of the 
type of credit she used to make the purchase. Specifically, Mrs E relied on Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“Section 75”). The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs E 
has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier of the goods 
(here that is C) she can also bring a like claim against Creation provided certain conditions 
are met.
Creation took a look at Mrs E’s complaint. It agreed that the contract between Mrs E and C 
had been both misrepresented and breached. But it considered that since C refunded the 
money Mrs E paid for the goods C had put things right already. However, even though it did 
not think there was anything further it needed to do Creation offered but apparently did not 
pay Mrs E £30 as a goodwill gesture. It explained that it thought this amount was appropriate 
as, at first, it wasn’t aware that C had sold Mrs E second-hand items and it only became 
aware when she told it about this. 
Mrs E did not agree that Creation’s goodwill gesture went far enough and rejected it, and 
she came to our service.
Once Mrs E’s complaint was with us Mrs E reiterated that she considered she was £70 out 
of pocket because the contract was misrepresented and breached. Mrs E also complained 
that her credit rating had been negatively impacted due to having the account with Creation 
on her credit file. She also complained about having to take out new finance with a third 
party to buy the replacement goods which she considered had caused her to experience a 
further loss.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Creation had to do more than it had already offered to do.
Creation accepted our investigator’s recommendation Mrs E did not. Mrs E repeated her 
previous stance and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold Mrs E’s complaint in part, 
but I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision and I’ve set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision.
“What I’ve decided and why
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored 
it. Rather, I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
New matters
Mrs E has now also raised a question about the negative impact on her credit rating due to 
the agreement with Creation showing on her credit file. She has also raised the issue of the 
loss she says she made because she had to take out new credit to buy the replacement 
goods. These appear to be a new matters that have not been considered by Creation in its 
final response to Mrs E nor investigated as part of this complaint. Under the rules I must 
follow all this would have needed to have happened already in order for me to look at these 
issues too. It follows that I am unable to look at these new matters in this decision.
What I can look at in this decision
Mrs E and Creation agree that C misrepresented and breached its contract (as the goods 
were not brand-new and were not of satisfactory quality). Further, they both agree that Mrs E 
can ask Creation to put things right in these circumstances when the effect of Section 75 and 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) are taken into account. 
Where they disagree is about whether Mrs E has experienced a loss in relation to the extra 
money she paid for the replacement goods. And whether Creation is responsible for this. 
Also they disagree about whether an award for distress and inconvenience is merited. I say 
this because Mrs E says Creation ought to make a payment to her for distress and 
inconvenience because of what has gone wrong that it is responsible for. Whereas, Creation 
has offered (but not yet paid) £30, as a gesture of goodwill. A gesture of goodwill means 
Creation does not think it is at fault but makes an offer anyway. So in other words Creation is 
saying Mrs E isn’t entitled to a payment for distress and inconvenience per se.  I’ll look at 
both issues in turn
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant law 
and regulations include but are not limited to Section 75 and the CRA 2015.
Has Mrs E made a loss that Creation ought to be responsible for?
I think this is a simple issue. Mrs E did not end up paying more for the replacement goods 
because of what C did wrong. Rather, she ended up in this situation because other retailers 
happened to be selling the goods at a higher price than C or other retailers did not have the 
goods in stock. C was responsible for selling her the goods it promised to sell her. And if it 
could not do this then it was fair and reasonable for it or by extension Creation, to refund the 
purchase price, which is what has happened. There is nothing in law to say Creation has to 
compensate Mrs E because other retailers chose to sell the goods at a higher price or did 
not have the goods available when she wanted to buy them. Neither is it fair or reasonable to 
say Creation needs to do this. It follows I don’t uphold this part of Mrs E’s complaint. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs E bought brand-new goods from a well-known retailer she was entitled to expect she’d 
get those goods, but she didn’t. Rather, the goods she received were both misrepresented 
and not of satisfactory quality, so there was a breach of contract. As a result Mrs E spent 45, 
no doubt frustrating minutes, on the phone, trying to get the goods to work. Only to find that 
C, an established and well-known retailer had misled her and breached their contract.  I can 
well imagine that came as an unwelcome surprise.
Moreover, Mrs E was unable to use the goods immediately as she clearly intended. Looking 
at the information I have on the file what jumps off the page is that her sense of anticipation 
about the goods turned rapidly to disappointment.
I don’t doubt that all of this caused Mrs E distress and inconvenience. I think it is fair and 
reasonable that Creation ought to be responsible for this. 
Creation as a goodwill gesture has offered Mrs E £30. It explains the amount of the goodwill 
gesture and the fact that it is a goodwill gesture not an admission of fault, on the basis that it 
didn’t know that C had sold second-hand goods to Mrs E. That’s irrelevant. I say this 
because Creation is responsible for the misrepresentation and the breach of contract, its 
lack of knowledge about the wrongdoing is not the point. Therefore it is also responsible for 
the distress and inconvenience that were caused by the misrepresentation and breach of 
contract.
In all the circumstances, I don’t agree that £30 takes account of the impact on Mrs E I think 
£150 is a more appropriate award in the circumstances.
Credit file
Mrs E has shown that the account with Creation is still showing on her credit file. Creation 
indicated that the account was now closed. I note that the account only seems to have had 
this one transaction on it and that Mrs E doesn’t want the account anymore. In the 
circumstances therefore, it is fair and reasonable that Creation must ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove any information it has asked them to register about the credit agreement 
on Mrs E’s credit file.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Pay Mrs E £150 for distress and inconvenience.

Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked them to 
register about the credit agreement on Mrs E’s credit file.
It must pay the £150 within 28 days of the date on which Mrs E accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £150 from the date of the final decision 
until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs E can reclaim the tax if she is entitled to 
do so.”
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. “
As far as I am aware only Mrs E responded to my provisional decision. Mrs E responded to 
say she accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs E for her response to my provisional decision. Ideally I would have received a 
response from Creation too. However, I think it has been given a fair opportunity to respond 
should it have wished to. 
I’ve reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision. I have received no new 
information or reasoning in response to my provisional decision. It follows in this final 
decision I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Pay Mrs E £150 for distress and inconvenience.

Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked them to 
register about the credit agreement on Mrs E’s credit file.
It must pay the £150 within 28 days of the date on which Mrs E accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £150 from the date of the final decision 
until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must, if it is able 
to send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs E can reclaim the tax if she 
is entitled to do so.
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman
