DRN-1751108
 
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) wrote to her relative about 
her account, including when a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period would end, rather than her. 
She is also unhappy that she had more than one account with Creation, and with the 
information shown on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs N took out a credit agreement for a Your Plan account in February 2017 to purchase 
some items. In May 2017 Mrs N purchased some more items, and a second credit 
agreement was set up.
When one of the accounts BNPL period was due to end, Creation wrote to Mrs N’s relative. 
Mrs N wasn’t aware of this and the BNPL period ended.
Mrs N contacted Creation when she became aware. Creation discovered two accounts were 
set up but didn’t do anything further at that stage to stop the second account.
Some time later Miss N complained to Creation about the two accounts. They said that two 
accounts were set up in different stores so Mrs N would have been aware of this. But they 
said both shouldn’t be open so when the balance on one was clear, then it would be closed. 
They also confirmed both accounts were in arrears as Mrs N had cancelled her Direct Debit 
instructions with her bank.
Mrs N was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator initially set up this complaint, and included Mrs N’s relative’s concerns, and 
Mrs N’s own concerns within the same complaint. She reached a finding in relation to Mrs 
N’s relative, as well as Mrs N.
In relation to Mrs N’s concerns, our investigator didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in 
writing to Mrs N’s relative, as these were the details she had given when the account was 
set up. She also thought how Creation had recorded information on the credit file was 
correct. But she did think that Creation should have done more when they were aware of the 
two accounts, but didn’t think this impacted Mrs N, as she continued to use and benefit from 
having both available. 
However our investigator recommended £75 compensation be paid to Mrs N for the service 
provided, and because Creation didn’t stop new purchases being added to the second 
account until some time after they were aware Mrs N had two accounts.
Following this, the complaint was correctly separated, and Mrs N’s relative’s concerns were 
looked at separately. 
Creation agreed with the £75 compensation recommended by the investigator for Mrs N. But 
Mrs N didn’t agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I’ll confirm that I’m only looking at Mrs N’s complaint. I’m not considering her 
relative’s concerns here as part of this complaint.
The two accounts
I can see that Mrs N set up her first account on 7 February 2017, and I’ll call this account A.
Mrs N’s second account was set up on 14 May 2017, and I’ll call this account B. I can see 
that slightly different details were given when account B was set up. Namely:

The agreement was in the name of Mrs N rather than Miss N

A middle name wasn’t included

A different email address was provided
 
Creation says that this is why a second account was set up, because different details were 
provided, and the system didn’t recognise that another account was already active. 
Mrs N says that it was likely an error by the salesman in store that the second account was 
set up, as she said that she told him that she already had an account. It’s unlikely the 
salesman would have been able to obtain the details listed above (and others) without them 
being provided, but equally I can never know exactly what was discussed.
But whether it was the salesman’s error, or because slightly different details were given 
which meant the second account was inadvertently opened, I can’t conclude Mrs N has been 
disadvantaged because of this. I say this because Mrs N purchased the items she always 
intended, albeit via two accounts rather than one. But I can’t see that this has caused any 
detriment to Mrs N. I also note, when Mrs N became aware that she had two accounts, she 
also continued to spend on them both.
On both the account applications, the request for correspondence was via email. And a 
different email address had been provided on account B – Mrs N’s relatives.
As this was the email address Creation was given, and email correspondence was 
requested, I can’t conclude that Creation acted unfairly by writing to this email address about 
the account, including balances, BNPL details and any interest being applied. Although 
Mrs N’s relative might not have made her aware of the emails they had received, that’s not 
something I can hold Creation responsible for.
The original agreement taken out outlined when the BNPL was due to end. So whilst email 
correspondence went to Mrs N’s relative about that account – which I don’t think Creation 
acted unreasonably by doing – Mrs N was made aware on the original agreement when it 
was due to end.
So whilst two accounts were opened, I can’t see Mrs N has been disadvantaged as she has 
benefitted from using them both. Creation has said that when the balance has been cleared 
on account B, the agreement will be closed as Mrs N shouldn’t have two agreements in 
place. And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
But it does seem that Creation could have stopped purchases on the second account 
sooner. Having said that, it’s likely that even if Creation had done so, then Mrs N would have 
used account A instead. So, I don’t think it would have changed anything overall or put 
Mrs N into a different position other than the amount owing being on one rather than two 
accounts. But I think the investigator’s recommended compensation of £75 for not closing it 
sooner is fair in the circumstances.
Credit file 
Mrs N has said that her credit file has recorded her having £21,000 of credit from Creation. 
Our investigator asked for evidence of this from Mrs N. But the only evidence Mrs N has 
provided shows her credit report showing £4,000 for one account and £5,000 for the other. 
Which are the correct amounts for each account. So based on the information provided, I’m 
unable to conclude Mrs N’s credit file shows £21,000 of credit with Creation.
Mrs N is also unhappy that Creation has recorded missed payments on her accounts. But 
Mrs N cancelled the direct debits in June 2019. She says she did this out of frustration and 
so Creation would contact her. But this was Mrs N’s choice to cancel them. And the 
balances owing were for items Mrs N had purchased. 
So even though Mrs N was unhappy two accounts were in place, even if she only had one, 
and all purchases were made on that account, she still would always have needed to make 
those payments. So I don’t think Creation would be acting unfairly generally by recording 
missed payments once Mrs N had cancelled her direct debit and stopped making payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Mrs N £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman
