 
 
DRN-4978468 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened 
On 4 August 2021, a hire purchase agreement for a car was set up in Miss B’s name. She 
says she was unaware of the agreement and only found out about it when her then partner 
arrived in the new car. She says he told her the agreement was in her name for now and 
he’d give her the money to repay it. He did so for a while but has since stopped paying and 
is now uncontactable.  
 
Miss B says she had no contact with the car dealer or Creation and says it must have failed 
to carry out proper checks on the application it received. She says she worked part time 
earning around £600 per month, so could never have afforded the monthly repayments of 
£514. She complained to Creation on 29 June 2023 when she was unable to make the 
required payment as her ex-partner and failed to send the money. 
 
Creation looked into Miss B’s complaint and rejected it. It said it had relied on information 
contained in the application form for its affordability checks, paired with information from the 
credit reference agencies. Creation didn’t uphold Miss B’s complaint, but it did pass her 
concerns to its fraud team.  
 
Miss B didn’t accept Creation’s response, so she referred her complaint to our service. One 
o0f our investigators looked into it. He said that given the size and length of the agreement 
(a total amount payable of £35,037.41 over 48 months) Creation should have undertaken 
detailed checks to verify Miss B’s income and expenditure to ensure she could afford to 
repay the debt on a sustainable basis. Our investigator felt that if it had done sufficient 
checks, Creation would have identified that Miss B earned around £600 a month and would 
therefore be unable to afford the repayments.  
 
Our investigator said that Creation failed to properly engage with Miss B’s comments about 
the agreement having been set up by her ex-partner. He explained that the complaint was 
more about the affordability and mis-sale of the agreement than fraud, and there was no 
need to refer the matter to its fraud department. Our investigator felt that introduced an 
unnecessary process which was of no benefit to Miss B but caused her distress and 
inconvenience.  
 
Overall, our investigator felt Creation acted unfairly by providing an unaffordable hire 
purchase agreement to Miss B and didn’t respond appropriately to her complaint. He 
recommended that it should cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay, remove any 
entries from Miss B’s credit file and pay her £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
 
Miss B accepted what our investigator said, but Creation didn’t. It said, in summary: 
 
• 
The agreement had been “wet signed” by Miss B and a driving licence had been 
taken as identification, so she couldn’t reasonably deny awareness of the 
agreement. 
 
 
• 
It offered to waive interest on the account and accept the remaining cash price of 
the vehicle (just over £16,100). Miss B rejected this offer. 
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In my view the crux of this complaint is that Miss B says Creation should not have agreed 
this finance for her. She’s told us that she wasn’t present at the point of sale and only 
became aware of the finance agreement after her ex-partner turned up with the car. While 
the evidence suggests in fact she may have been present at the point of sale, I don’t think it 
alters my thoughts on the case. I say this because Creation had a duty to conduct a 
creditworthiness assessment before agreeing to the lending, and had it done so in the detail 
I’d expect for such an agreement, I think it ought to have refused to lend. Let me explain. 
 
We’ve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
on our website – including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. I’ve considered this approach when deciding this complaint. 
 
Creation needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didn’t 
lend to Miss B irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint: 
 
• 
Did Creation carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss B was in a position to sustainably repay the finance? 
• 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
• 
Did Creation make a fair lending decision? 
• 
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way? 
 
The checks are not for Creation to assess the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to 
consider the impact of the repayments on Miss B. There is no set list of checks that it had to 
do, but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of 
the agreement, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall circumstances of the 
borrower. 
 
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where: 
 
• 
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make 
repayments of a set amount from a low level of income); 
• 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment for a particular level of income); and 
• 
the longer the term of the agreement (because the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a 
longer period). 
 
In this case, the total payable under the credit agreement was £35,037.41 with 
monthly repayments of £514 or so for 48 months, and a final payment of £9,868. So 
in my view, this is a significant credit agreement which I think would require a detailed 
assessment of the borrower’s circumstances.  
 
 
 
Did Creation carry out reasonable and proportionate checks? 
 
Creation has said Miss B declared she was a single tenant; she earned a monthly gross 
income of £2,416 (it calculated £1,946 net) and her partner paid the rent. It checked her 
credit report and found another hire purchase agreement for £111 per month with around 8 
months left to run. So Creation calculated this left a disposable income of around £1,300 per 
month. Creation has told us its credit search confirmed Miss B’s income at the level quoted 
and her credit files “were of a good standard”.  
 
I’ve already said, I’d expect detailed checks to be carried out given the nature of the 
agreement. I don’t think the checks set out above were reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances here. I would have expected it to ask further questions to understand her 
income and expenditure. In my experience, it would be rare for someone living in rented 
accommodation with this level of income to have £1,300 ‘disposable’ each month. There 
would after all likely to be energy bills, food bills, as well as running costs for the car being 
financed.  
 
Creation says a “bureau data search confirmed” Miss B’s income at the level quoted on the 
application form, but it hasn’t provided evidence of that. It told us that when the application 
was made, her “bureau files were of a good standard..." which I take to mean her records at 
the credit reference agencies were good.  
 
But it has provided an extract from one of the major credit reference agencies which shows 
Miss B as having a “score” of 413. The agency’s website says that score sits in the lowest 
bracket of “very poor” – some way short of the “good standard” Creation referred to. I would 
have expected this to trigger very thorough checks indeed. In my view, the checks carried 
out by Creation were not reasonable and proportionate in this instance.  
 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, and did Creation 
make a fair lending decision? 
 
I’ve outlined above some of the reasons why I think Creation ought to have carried out 
further checks on Miss B’s finances. I think it would have been reasonable for it to get a 
detailed understanding of her income and expenditure, for example by asking to see some of 
her payslips and bank statements to ensure she could afford to repay the finance. 
 
Miss B has provided payslips and bank statements which evidence her monthly income at 
being just under £596 per month. So I don’t think it’s likely she’d have been able to 
demonstrate an income in the region of that quoted on the application.  
 
Given the level of income she has demonstrated, I can’t see how Creation could reasonably 
have reached a fair decision to agree finance of this level for Miss B. After repayment of this 
hire purchase alone (not including her credit elsewhere which Creation was aware of), she’d 
have been left in the region of just £80 for her other expenditure – not least running costs of 
the car being financed. I don’t think it reached a fair decision to lend to her.   
 
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B in some other way? 
 
I agree with our investigator on this point. When Miss B raised her complaint about the 
finance agreement, it received enough information to consider it without the need for the 
extra layer of referral to its fraud department. While, clearly, it is for Creation to decide if that 
was necessary from a procedural point of view, I don’t think it was necessary to do so for 
Miss B. Her main concern wasn’t that she didn’t know about the finance being in her name 
(at least shortly after the event) but that it was never affordable for her. Had it reacted more 
 
 
quickly to that point, it could have avoided her suffering further distress and inconvenience. 
 
Putting things right 
Ordinarily where we decide a credit facility has been given irresponsibly, we say its fair and 
reasonable that the consumer should repay the amount borrowed but without the interest 
and charges. The reason for that is that we think they will have benefitted from the goods or 
services purchased with the money lent.  
 
But in this instance, Miss B has explained she has never driven the car or been insured on it. 
In the circumstances she’s described, I find her testimony to be persuasive. So I don’t think I 
can reasonably conclude that Miss B has had the full benefit of the car acquired under the 
agreement. From what she’s told us, it is her ex-partner rather than her that has paid the 
repayments to date (albeit via her account). So I don’t think she is entitled to any refund of 
what has been paid so far. But I don’t think it would be reasonable to ask her to pay anything 
further towards it. 
 
For the reasons set out above, I think Creation should: 
 
• 
cancel any liability Miss B has under the hire purchase agreement; 
• 
stop pursuing Miss B for any funds due under the agreement; 
• 
remove all entries relating to this agreement from Miss B’s credit file; and 
• 
pay Miss B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.  
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should put 
matters right as I’ve set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2024.  
 
Richard Hale 
Ombudsman 
 
