DRN-3069048
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in August 2014. The purchase was funded by loan 
from Creation (“loan 1”), and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
In 2016, Mr B refinanced the loan. His wife, who I will call Mrs B, took out a second loan with 
Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading as Tesco Bank) (“loan 2”), and Mr B used the loan 
proceeds to repay Creation in November of that year. Mrs B subsequently refinanced again 
with another loan from Tesco Bank (“loan 3”); this loan also included some new borrowing.
When Mr B complained to Creation that the panels had been mis-sold to him, Creation 
offered to settle his claim (without admitting liability) by making the solar panels self-funding 
over the original ten-year term of loan 1. But Mr B was not satisfied with that offer, because it 
did not take the refinancing into account. He brought this complaint to our service, 
represented by his solicitor.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be to ensure that Mr B 
and his wife would pay no more than what the benefits of the panels would be over ten 
years, taking the refinancing into account. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr B 
£100 for his trouble.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point when looking at complaints like these is to ensure the consumer doesn’t 
experience any financial loss as a result of the mis-representation. Since Mrs B was not a 
customer of Creation (and so is not eligible to complain about Creation in her own right), and 
the Tesco Bank loans were in her name, I have considered whether it is fair to take the 
refinancing into account. But since she and her husband form part of the same household, 
and they have explained that the only reason the refinancing was done in her name was 
because she usually handles their banking, I think it would be artificial to treat the refinancing 
as having nothing to do with him. So I agree that the compensation needs to take the 
refinancing into account, along the lines set out by our adjudicator.
I’m satisfied by the evidence I’ve seen (see below) that loan 2 was used to refinance loan 1, 
and that loan 3 was used in part to finance loan 2.
Putting things right
In simple terms, I think the fairest way for Creation to put things right is to:
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund to Mr B the extra his wife paid with the refinanced loans (loans 2 and 3).
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding.
6.
Pay Mr B £100 for his trouble.
Step 3 above shall only apply to so much of loan 3 as was used to pay off loan 2.
To allow Creation to carry out this calculation, Mr B has provided:

a copy of each of the Tesco Bank loan agreements,

a full statement showing all repayments made to each of these loans.
I will share this evidence with Creation.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
