DRN-3658287
The complaint
Miss F and Mr M complain that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) provided 
misleading information about why they had been declined for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss F and Mr M, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll 
explain why.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit because 
the application didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them 
to share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
It’s not only adverse information that businesses may consider in a credit file it could also be 
other factors such as the amount of credit, or the number of applications made etc. Whilst I 
understand that Miss F and Mr M have explained their credit scores are excellent, I don’t 
think that means Creation necessarily had to accept the application. That was a decision for 
them to make.
So, whilst I understand that it may have been easier to simply explain that they only had to 
give a primary reason for rejecting the application, I don’t think they were wrong to refer  
Miss F and Mr R to the credit reference agencies and, although I can see that a response to 
the complaint wasn’t received for some time, it was received within the eight week period 
Creation are required to respond in, so I can’t say the response was late. I can see that 
Creation did remove one of the hard searches from the credit file as they realised this had 
been generated as a result of Miss F and Mr M’s endeavours to resubmit the initial 
application – I think that was fair in the circumstances.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think Creation have been unreasonable here and I’m not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
