DRN-4844987
The complaint and what happened
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent to him irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. He would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded, as well as compensation for the length of time the complaint has 
been ongoing.
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from May 2024, which form part of 
this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I wasn’t planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought the evidence showed that giving 
him this loan would significantly improve Mr C’s financial position to the extent that it ought to 
have been affordable and sustainable for him to repay. So I didn’t think Creation had done 
anything wrong.
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Creation accepted my provisional findings and Mr C did not respond.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision:
“What happened
In July 2018 Creation approved a loan of £19,000 for Mr C, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £407 per month over a term of 60 months. The loan was 
intended to be used to consolidate other unsecured debt. When assessing the 
application, Creation asked Mr C about his circumstances; carried out a credit check; 
and did a basic income and expenditure (I&E) analysis before approving the lending.
Mr C settled the loan as planned in March 2021.
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought that Creation ought not to have 
given Mr C this loan, because of the amount of debt he already had. Creation didn’t 
accept that, and asked an ombudsman to look at the case.
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m currently not planning to uphold it, and I’ll explain why.
The investigator set out that he thought, given the size and duration of the loan, Creation 
ought to have sought out more recent information from Mr C. He ultimately identified, from Mr 
C’s bank statements, that he had a large amount of unsecured debt which left him with 
insufficient disposable income to be able to sustainably afford this borrowing. He also said 
that Creation ought to have done more to understand the extent to which this borrowing was 
to be used for debt consolidation.
Whilst I agree with all of these points, I concluded that some further evidence about the 
debt consolidation was needed. It was clear that Mr C had told Creation that was what the 
money was for. And it was clear that Creation had identified a large number of unsecured 
debt accounts via its checks. The investigator set out in his view that Mr C had seven credit 
cards, and three unsecured loans at the time, and was spending around £845 a month in 
servicing those debts.
What I haven’t seen is a detailed assessment by Creation of exactly which other debts Mr 
C planned to consolidate and therefore exactly what impact that would have had on his 
overall monthly debt burden. But it was entitled to rely on what Mr C told it about the 
intended purpose of the loan, and which was large enough to have a significant impact on 
his overall financial position.
I asked Mr C for some more information about whether he did use this loan to consolidate 
other debts, which he confirmed he did. He provided me with the detail of which accounts 
were paid off, in short, almost all of them. Looking at his level of indebtedness, and 
accepting that he was going to consolidate £19,000 worth of that indebtedness into this 
one loan from it, I think it was reasonable for Creation to conclude that Mr C would be able 
to sustainably afford the repayments. From what he’s told me, I can see that Mr C 
managed to clear a lot of far more expensive revolving credit by using this loan at 10.9% 
APR to settle it. In short, he improved his financial situation by taking out this loan.
Whilst Creation could not, of course, have guaranteed that Mr C would do as he said he 
wanted to, it also had no reason to doubt him. It seems clear that he genuinely wanted to 
take steps to reduce his debt burden, and that Creation accepted his application on that 
basis. Creation should have asked more. Its checks didn’t go far enough in all the 
circumstances. But a more thorough I&E, perhaps using bank statements, setting out 
exactly which other debts would be cleared, and therefore how Mr C’s expenditure would 
reduce, would only have led Creation to conclude that this loan was affordable for him.
So, based on the available evidence, I cannot reach a finding that Creation ought to have 
identified that this borrowing would not be sustainable for Mr C when it assessed his 
application. It therefore follows that I do not currently plan to uphold this complaint.”
As mentioned above, Creation has accepted my findings, and Mr C hasn’t responded. 
Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
And so it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint and Creation does not need to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2024. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman
