DRN-3723951
The complaint
Mr S complains about the outcome of a claim he made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr S has been represented by his wife but for simplicity, and because Mr S is named on the 
finance agreement, I will refer only to Mr S in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
“Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill”.
There were several aspects of the installation that the independent inspector identified as 
inadequate. They included isolation switches having been fitted in the wrong place, pipework 
that needed redirecting, inadequate drainage, problems with the electrics, and misaligned 
cupboards. Mr S has explained that subsequently it was discovered that a gas supply wasn’t 
fitted or certified and neither was a water supply. So, I don’t think the installation has been 
performed with reasonable care and skill and I think there has been a breach of contract 
here. 
Putting things right
I don’t think it would be reasonable to ask Creation to compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the supplier, but I am required to consider whether Creation have 
handled the claim reasonably and I don’t think they have.
Creation have offered to refund half of the installation costs (£1,323.89), but I don’t think 
that’s sufficient. The installation was supposed to be completed in three days, but it took 
over three months until the majority of issues were resolved and in the meantime Mr S was 
left without water and cooking facilities in the kitchen area. Mr S’s living area was cluttered 
with stock that was awaiting fitting. The shelving that was to form a central feature of the 
kitchen wasn’t long enough and couldn’t be fitted and Mr S had to wait for missing 
components to be delivered over an extended period of time. I think there were significant 
issues with the installation, and I think a refund of 75% of the installation costs would be fair 
in the circumstances.
Creation have agreed to pay Mr S £650 for the cost of eating out whilst the kitchen was left 
unfinished. That was agreed earlier but if it transpires, as Mr S says, that the £650 was 
never paid, Creation should add interest from the date it should have been paid (the date 
remedial work completed) until the date of settlement.
Creation have also agreed to pay £831 (calculated from the quote Mr S provided, less £180 
for lighting, and less the refunded amount Mr S has already received for the shelving the 
merchant provided in error) so that Mr S can have the floating shelves fitted. I’d agree with 
that solution.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund 75% of the £2,647.78 installation cost to reflect the poor standard of 
installation, breach of contract, and the delay. Add 8% simple interest per year from 
the date the finance was paid to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr S his eating out costs of £650 (unless this has already been paid), plus 8% 
simple interest per year from the date the remedial work was completed to the date 
of settlement.

Pay the difference of £831.00 so that Mr S can have the floating shelves fitted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
