DRN-2300550
The complaint
 Mr R complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In July 2019 Mr R was supplied with a car ad entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered 46,000 
miles.
Within a few days of having the car, Mr R noticed that he was having to fill up the oil every 
week. He also experienced a rattling noise, issues with the brakes, gears crunching. Mr R 
reported his concerns to the supplying dealer and asked to reject the car. He says they 
declined to do this.
Following this the engine failed in August 2019 and Mr R was no longer able to drive the car. 
He complained to Creation. The car was recovered to the supplying dealer and an 
independent inspection was carried out. Based on the findings of the inspection, Creation 
said it wouldn’t accept a rejection.
Mr R was unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she didn’t think the independent inspection 
report could be relied on because it was a limited inspection, and it didn’t say why the 
coolant and oil was low. The investigator thought that because there were so many issues 
with the car within a short time of the point of supply, it was more likely that the faults were 
present at the point of supply.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the inspection report concluded that the fault with the engine 
wasn’t present at the point of supply. It also said that Mr R had covered 1738 miles since the 
point of supply and the engine failure and that this could have impacted on the fault. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would expect a second-hand car such as that supplied to Mr R to have a degree 
of wear and tear and to require repair more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to 
uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car as opposed to faults due to general wear and tear.
I can see that Mr R raised a complaint within the first 30 days of getting the car. He 
complained about issues including the rattling noise, the gearbox crunching, brake issues 
and excessive oil consumption.
I’ve looked at the independent inspection report. This identifies several issues with the car 
including low oil and coolant, knocking noise from the engine, white smoke from the exhaust 
and weak battery. The engine had failed prior to the inspection so it wasn’t possible to road 
test the car at the inspection. Despite the limited inspection, its clear that at least two of the 
issues raised by Mr C in the first 30 days (low oil and knocking nose) were identified during 
the inspection.
Although the report concludes that “the current engine issue wasn’t present or developing at 
commencement of hire”, I don’t think this is sufficient to rebut the presumption that a fault 
which arises in the first 6 months is presumed to be present or developing at the point of 
supply unless the business can show otherwise. I say this because there’s nothing in the 
inspection report to suggest why the oil and coolant are low, or what the cause of the 
knocking noise if, or whether either of these two issues are related to the engine failure. 
It’s clear from the inspection that the car has several issues. At least two of these issues are 
the same as those reported by Mr C in the first 30 days. I think it’s more likely than not that 
the issues with the oil consumption and the knocking noise from the engine were present or 
developing at the point of supply. On the balance of probabilities, I think these issues 
contributed to the engine failure. Even if they didn’t, I don’t think a reasonable person would 
expect an engine to fail on a car of this age and mileage after only a few weeks from the 
point of supply. So I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
 Based on what I’ve seen, I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I’m satisfied that Mr R experienced faults and reported these within the first 30 days. 
Because of this, he should be allowed to reject the car. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay

Refund any payments made by Mr R since 1 August 2019 together with 8% interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement

Remove any adverse information from Mr R’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
