DRN-4385769
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about a loan Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) 
provided to her. 
She says she had significant credit card debt and Creation had carried out enough checks it 
would have seen the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Creation provided Mrs M with a loan for £6,400.00 in March 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £141.54. One of our investigators reviewed what        
Mrs M and Creation had told us. And she didn’t recommend that Mrs M’s complaint be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mrs M’s complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I’ve not been persuaded to uphold Mrs M’s 
complaint. I’ll explain why in a little more detail.
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs M 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Creation says it agreed to Mrs M’s application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mrs M could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs M has said 
she was in financial difficulty and shouldn’t have been lent to.
I’ve carefully thought about what Mrs M and Creation have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Creation has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mrs M didn’t have that much in the way of existing credit commitments 
and what she did have was relatively well maintained. 
I accept that Mrs M appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the information Creation 
obtained. I know that Mrs M says that she had defaulted on previous credit commitments. 
But I don’t think that Creation was aware of this as I think it’s unlikely that Mrs M would have 
been given an APR of 12.4% had Creation been aware of her previous difficulties with credit.
I’ve also seen that Mrs M believes that Creation had no actual evidence of her situation at 
the time. She’s also said that a lender should ask for bank statements before providing a 
loan of this amount and that she was using her overdraft most months. 
However, I don’t think that the amount being advanced in itself meant that bank statements 
should have been requested from Mrs M in this instance – particularly given the low monthly 
payments required and Mrs M didn’t, from Creation’s credit searches at least, appear to be 
significantly indebted or have any recent significant adverse information recorded against 
her. 
Furthermore, there’s a suggestion from Mrs M’s initial complaint that this loan was taken out 
for consolidation purposes. And Creation could only make a reasonable decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. Mrs M could have used the funds from this loan 
to have cleared what she owed on more expensive forms of credit - such as her overdraft. 
Creation couldn’t have been expected to know that Mrs M would go on to, as she says, re-
establish balances on her credit cards and overdraft – all it could do was take reasonable 
steps and rely on assurances from Mrs M that she would consolidate debts with the funds 
from this loan. So I’m satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been 
used to reduce Mrs M’s balances on more expensive credit and Creation simply wasn’t in a 
position to close Mrs M’s accounts either. 
Equally, this was a first loan Creation was providing and there wasn’t a history of Mrs M 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she committed to 
either. So Creation was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs M would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan. In these circumstances, I don’t think that 
Creation’s decision to lend was unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mrs M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable, although I do accept that Mrs M doesn’t agree. 
So overall I don’t think that Creation treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with his loan. And I’m not upholding Mrs M’s complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs M. But I hope she’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that 
she’ll at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mrs M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
