DRN-2938006
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) handled his claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) - for a faulty sofa and the adverse 
information it recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr V purchased a sofa from a retailer who I will refer to as “S” and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation to pay for this. In February 2020 when the sofa was delivered, Mr V 
said the product came damaged and so he contacted S about this. Following an inspection, 
S agreed the sofa was faulty, but as it was unable to provide an exact replacement, Mr V 
asked to cancel the order. 
Unhappy with how things had unfolded, Mr V raised a complaint with Creation on 9 March 
2020. On 24 April 2020 Creation sent Mr V a final response letter. It confirmed that the S75 
claim had been upheld and S had agreed to collect the faulty goods at the end of the 
COVID-19 lockdown. Creation also confirmed that S had asked for payments on the account 
to be put on hold until the sofa was collected.
Mr V has said that despite being told the payments would be on hold, he received letters and 
notifications from Creation asking him to make payment towards his finance agreement. He 
also explained that there were six missed payment markers registered on his credit file 
against his Creation account, between May 2020 and October 2020, which he said affected 
his credit score.
In November 2020, Mr V contacted the credit reference agency (CRA) to ask it to amend his 
credit file by removing the missed payment markers. However, he received correspondence 
back from the CRA, which said it had been told by Creation that the data it held for him was 
correct and so it couldn’t amend his credit file.
On 27 November 2020 the sofa was collected by S. 
On 30 December 2020, the CRA notified Mr V that Creation had permitted it to remove all 
the late payment markers from his credit file. 
Mr V however remained unhappy with how long Creation had taken to resolve this issue. He 
also explained that due to the pandemic, his financial situation had worsened, and he had 
applied for loans, which he was rejected for. He considered Creation and its recording of 
adverse information as the reason for the loans being declined. Mr V also mentioned how he 
had received court documents from his landlord, who was looking to evict him for unpaid 
rent. He thought this was as a result of the late payment markers registered by Creation.  
Our investigator upheld Mr V’s complaint in part. He thought Mr V had to store the faulty sofa 
at his property for an unreasonable amount of time and he agreed that Mr V’s credit file was 
significantly impacted through no fault of his own. 
However, in terms of the impact the adverse information had on Mr V, ultimately there wasn’t 
enough evidence to say this was the reason Mr V was declined for the loans. He also wasn’t 
persuaded that the recording of adverse information on Mr V’s credit file led directly to him 
being served with court documents for eviction over unpaid rent. 
For the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr V, the investigator thought Creation 
should pay £200.00. The investigator also asked Creation to return Mr V’s deposit of £100 
plus 8% simple interest from the date this was paid.
Creation accepted the investigator’s view, but Mr V didn’t. In summary Mr V said:

The compensation should be increased to reflect his storage of the sofa, which 
he put at £30 per month. 

He still believed the situation with his property had arisen due to the misreporting 
on his credit file. This ultimately resulted in a county court judgement against 
him. 

He still believed the late payment markers had meant he couldn’t access credit, 
which in turn impacted his ability to pay his tax bill. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Mr V had a valid S75 claim, and the remedy for this was for the sofa 
to be collected and the finance agreement cancelled. Given that I also consider this to be a 
fair and reasonable remedy, I will not comment further on the S75 claim itself. Instead my 
decision will focus on the outstanding issues Mr V remains unhappy with, which are the 
delays he encountered with the sofa being collected and the adverse information recorded 
on his credit file by Creation and the impact this had on him. 
I will deal with each concern in turn:
Delays in collecting the sofa 
Creation received Mr V’s complaint in March 2020 and sent its final response in April 2020. 
In its final response letter, it confirmed that the faulty sofa would be collected after the 
current lockdown period was over.
When looking at the timeline for the UK lockdown, the first UK lockdown began easing in 
June 2020. However, the sofa wasn’t collected until 27 November 2020.
Whilst I appreciate Creation wasn’t responsible for the initial delays by S with the collection 
of the sofa, following its final response letter, it was informed by Mr V and our service that 
the sofa had still not been collected, and I think it could’ve better assisted Mr V by trying to 
arrange for the sofa to be collected sooner.
In terms of storage, I appreciate Mr V has mentioned storage fees at £30 a month, but from 
the available evidence, I can’t see anything to suggest that the sofa was stored anywhere 
other than his home, or that he was paying for storage. 
However, I do appreciate that Mr V was caused inconvenience by the sofa taking up space 
in his home, especially as he didn’t even use the sofa, and the delays to the sofa being 
collected would have added to his inconvenience. And so, I’ve taken this into account when 
considering what compensation overall to award Mr V.
Adverse information recorded for Mr V in his credit file
Creation in its final response letter in April 2020 confirmed payments would be on hold until 
the sofa was collected. However, Mr V provided us with an extract from his credit file relating 
to his Creation account, showing six missed payment markers registered between May 2020 
to October 2020, and the account being recorded as in arrears. Mr V confirmed the adverse 
information recorded on his credit file was eventually corrected in December 2020.
It is clear from the evidence that I have seen that Creation had promised to place Mr V’s 
account on hold and so I don’t think it acted fairly when it reported the incorrect information 
to the CRA.
From the evidence provided by Mr V, it’s clear he had spent time trying to resolve the matter 
with Creation, as well as contacting the CRA to try to get the incorrect adverse information 
sorted out when Creation didn’t rectify its mistake. It is important that firms accurately report 
the status of an account to the CRA’s and failure to do so can be distressing for consumers, 
particularly if it happens at a time when they are trying to secure credit. I accept Mr V was 
caused distress and inconvenience because of this.
In terms of Mr V’s submission that the adverse information recorded was the reason why his 
applications for loans were declined, and how this led to him being unable to meet his 
financial obligations, such as rent, I’m unfortunately not persuaded on this point and I will 
explain why. 
I can see that Mr V initially provided the investigator with an extract from his credit file 
relating to his Creation account, as well as a copy of an application for a business current 
account which was unsuccessful in November 2020. He has also supplied a copy of a tenant 
hardship loan which he unsuccessfully applied for in May 2021. 
In order to consider the impact of the late markers reported by Creation, I asked to see a full 
copy of Mr V’s credit file. He declined to provide this. Without sight of this, I can’t assess the 
extent to which the Creation mis-reporting impacted his overall credit standing. 
So, from the available evidence, I am not persuaded that the adverse information on the 
credit file led directly to Mr V being declined for the loan applications and suffering the losses 
he is claiming for. Moreover, there are many factors that feed into a decision to grant credit 
and an applicant’s credit file is just one of those factors. 
It is worth highlighting that the application for the tenant loan was some five months after 
Creation had removed the adverse information, and in those circumstances, it is difficult to 
conclude that Creation's reporting of adverse information was the sole reason Mr V's tenant 
loan was refused. 
While I may not be satisfied that the adverse information was the reason Mr V was declined 
for his loan applications, I am satisfied Creation recorded incorrect information which clearly 
caused Mr V distress and inconvenience at a stressful time, when he was struggling 
financially and when he needed to apply for credit. Mr V had to also spend time contacting 
the CRA directly to try to get the adverse information amended which would’ve only added to 
his inconvenience. 
When thinking about the delays, and the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr V, whilst 
the investigator suggested £200 compensation, I consider £350 to be more reasonable in 
the circumstances to which Creation has also agreed with. I consider this award fairly 
reflects the impact Creation's actions had on Mr V. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr V may still be unhappy with the outcome, I do not think there are 
sufficient grounds to ask Creation to pay anything more than £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to: 

Refund any payments made by Mr V from the start of the agreement to termination 
plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until the date it is 
refunded.

Pay Mr V £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr V a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman
