 
 
DRN-5290391 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) handled a 
claim she’d made in relation to a desktop computer she bought using a running credit 
account she had with Creation.  
 
What happened 
Mrs P bought an all-in-one integrated desktop computer from a supplier I’ll call C, using her 
running credit account with Creation in October 2022 for around £1,000. 
  
In December 2023, she paid C using a debit card from a different provider to assess damage 
to the screen, but said the rest of the desktop was functioning. It seems there was a delay in 
giving Mrs P a repair quote as it was misplaced. But once the desktop was found C gave a 
quote for around £900 to repair the screen damage. Mrs P didn’t agree to pay for the repair 
and she asked for the desktop to be returned to her. When she went to pick it up, Mrs P said 
it was damaged further and the whole desktop wasn’t working. She complained to C but said 
she didn’t get a response.  
 
Mrs P then raised the issue with the Financial Ombudsman. Since the complaint involved a 
purchase made on credit, it was forwarded to Creation, the financial services provider.  
 
Creation considered a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
It said it reviewed the information Mrs P submitted as part of her complaint and contacted C. 
C told it a repair was needed and there was a cost to have it repaired. It said that Mrs P 
“disputed” the charge and C then told Mrs P to return the desktop back to it for review, after 
she said it was damaged further. As the goods needed to be returned to C, Creation said it 
couldn’t progress the claim any further and it was rejected.  
 
An Investigator reviewed Mrs P’s complaint but didn’t uphold it. She didn’t think there was 
enough evidence to say Creation’s answer was unfair. She reviewed the information both 
Mrs P and Creation provided and didn’t think there was enough evidence to show the faults 
Mrs P complained of were present or developing at the point of sale which meant there was 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation Creation could be held jointly liable for. 
  
Mrs P disagreed with the Investigator’s assessment. She made a number of points: 
 
• 
Mrs P disputed she was contacted by C to return the desktop for further investigation.  
• 
She said she thought C and Creation were responsible for providing evidence of the contact 
and by not doing so Creation was in breach of Section 75.  
• 
She felt her claim was unfairly dismissed.  
• 
Mrs P subsequently arranged and provided an independent report to demonstrate the 
problems with the desktop.  
• 
There was no clarity regarding the investigation process. 
• 
She reiterated that her complaint was about C’s actions in handling her desktop when she 
 
 
paid for it to assess it and it was returned to her in a faulty state.  
• 
She explained she felt her claim was unresolved, even though she paid for an independent 
report and was unhappy with delays.  
The Investigator forwarded the report Mrs P paid for to Creation as this wasn’t provided 
when Creation considered the Section 75 claim. Creation reviewed it and said although this 
identified the issues with the desktop, it didn’t confirm any inherent manufacturing faults or 
how the damage happened. It didn’t change its position on the claim.  
 
The Investigator explained to Mrs P that she could only consider the actions of Creation as 
the financial services provider and based on the evidence she didn’t think it was fair to ask it 
to take any further action. 
 
Mrs P remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to review.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I want to acknowledge I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I’ve reviewed and 
carefully considered the entire file, acknowledging that Mrs P has raised several different 
points of complaint. I’ve focused my response on what I believe is most relevant to the 
matter at hand. If I’ve not addressed a specific point, it’s not because I’ve overlooked it or 
failed to consider it, but because I don’t believe it’s necessary to comment on it in order to 
arrive at what I believe is a fair outcome. The rules of the Financial Ombudsman allow me to 
take this approach. 
 
The Financial Ombudsman cannot directly investigate a complaint against C regarding the 
quality of goods. However, under Section 75, Creation is jointly liable for any breaches of 
contract or misrepresentations made by the supplier of goods or services – which is C in this 
case. In order for there to be a valid claim under Section 75, there needs to be a debtor-
creditor-supplier (‘DCS’) agreement in place and the transaction needs to be within certain 
financial limits. I’m satisfied the criteria has been met for a claim to be considered. I can 
decide whether Creation responded to that claim fairly.  
 
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75, there needs to have been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. I have nothing to suggest that the desktop was misrepresented to Mrs P 
when she bought it and so I’ve focused on whether Mrs P provided enough evidence to 
show there had been a breach of contract. 
 
A breach of contract can be considered in relation to the express terms of the contract or 
terms implied by law. Here the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant. The CRA 
implies terms into the contract that goods supplied will be (amongst other things) of 
satisfactory quality, fit for their intended purpose and as described. The CRA also sets out 
what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods (or services) 
contract are not met. 
It appears Mrs P’s complaint and claim centres on how C handled her repair request. It 
doesn’t seem Mrs P is saying the damage to the screen that she initially wanted a quote for 
repair was there when she first bought the desktop. Rather the screen was damaged in 
some way, it was worsened and the entire desktop stopped working whilst it was with C for 
assessment. It’s unclear how the original damage occurred. However, as it was screen 
damage, I think it’s likely that if a fault was present or developing from the point of sale Mrs P 
is likely to have raised it sooner than when she did.  
 
 
 
When Creation reviewed the claim, it considered the information provided by both Mrs P and 
C. However, I can’t see from the information available there was anything to indicate the 
damage that Mrs P claimed for was present or developing at the point of sale, demonstrating 
the desktop was of unsatisfactory quality – which is what Creation can be held liable for. So, 
I don’t think the answer to the claim at that point was unreasonable.  
 
Mrs P has provided a report to demonstrate the condition of the desktop during the 
investigation of her complaint at the Financial Ombudsman. Creation said that whilst the 
report gives details of the faults the desktop currently has, it doesn’t detail the cause of the 
faults or that it was a manufacturing fault, so it didn’t agree to change its position. I don’t 
think this was unfair of it. I’ve not seen enough evidence to conclude the desktop wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality when Mrs P first bought it. On this basis I don’t think Creation acted 
unfairly by not refunding Mrs P under its Section 75 liability. 
 
I can see Mrs P feels very strongly about this matter. She has made a number of points 
about the expectations she thinks Creation has under Section 75 and the CRA. I’ve focused 
on the issues Mrs P complains about in regards to the quality of the desktop she bought 
using her running credit account. That’s not to say something hasn’t gone wrong but I’m not 
persuaded that Mrs P has satisfied the evidential requirements needed to demonstrate a 
breach of contract, which Creation should be held responsible for. 
  
However, as her concerns are about the actions of C and the condition of her desktop after 
she sent it in for an assessment, she may wish to contact it again with the evidence she now 
has or think about an alternative avenue such as the courts.  
 
Overall, I don’t think Creation has acted unfairly in the handling of Mrs P’s claim under 
Section 75 and while I know this will disappoint Mrs P, I won’t be asking it to refund her the 
cost of her report or take steps to repair or refund her for the current state of the desktop.  
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2025. 
  
 
Amina Rashid 
Ombudsman 
 
