 
 
DRN-3953038 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In November 2013, Mr G bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“P” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of 
credit is £9,585, the monthly payments are £125.65, the total charge for credit is £5,358, and 
Mr G paid £1,000 deposit. The total amount payable is £16,078. 
 
Mr G repaid his loan on 25 March 2020, so in total he paid around £14,238 towards the 
system. 
 
Mr G sent a letter of claim to Creation on 6 January 2022, explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. In summary he said: 
 
• 
P told him that the system would pay for itself within 8 years 
• 
P told him that the monthly payments and savings he would receive would cover his 
monthly finance payments 
• 
The above has not happened, and if he had known this, he would not have entered 
into the agreement with P 
Mr G said he had a like claim against Creation for misrepresentation under s.75. He said that 
the misrepresentations made by P were on behalf of Creation under section 56 (“s.56”) of 
the CCA. And that because of the misrepresentations the relationship between Creation and 
himself was unfair under s.140A . 
  
Creation responded to the complaint on 10 January 2022 in its final response, it considered 
Mr G had brought his complaint outside of the time limits in the rules we follow.   
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service on 26 January 
2022. 
 
An investigator considered Mr G’s complaint, she thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr G and 
Creation.  
She recommended that Mr G keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr G 
had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively 
self-funding over the term of the agreement. And she said Creation should pay Mr G £100 
for the impact of not looking into his s.140A claim or complaint.   
 
 
 
I can’t see we received a response from Mr G or Creation, so, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
We’ve recently been in contact with Mr G who sent further documentation from the point of 
sale, and just after. We asked if Mr G agreed with the investigator’s opinion, he didn’t give a 
definitive answer. In addition to his original testimony Mr G also told us he had thought about 
panels before P approached him, as he was a bit ‘green energy’ and had heard panels 
reduced electricity bills. He also said he wasn’t sure if P had said the panels would pay for 
themselves in 8 years or over the term of the loan. 
 
The investigator has recently shared the further documentation from the point of sale with 
Creation. And has also drawn Creation’s attention to the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (‘RECC’) proceedings against P in 2014/15, P’s website from around the point of sale 
and P’s liquidation report produced in 2016. She specifically highlighted the part of the report 
where it states mis-selling issues by P were brought up by Creation which led to it 
terminating its contract with P. She asked for Creation to provide further comments; 
however, I can’t see that Creation have responded.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
  
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr G’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr G’s s.75 claim 
on 10 January 2022. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr G brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 26 January 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr G. Mr G repaid his loan on 25 March 
2020, that is when his alleged unfair relationship with Creation ended. Mr G referred his 
complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 26 January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
 
 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
S.56 of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent 
negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr G.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr G has said he was told by P’s representative that the monthly payments and savings he 
would receive would cover his monthly finance payments.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr G to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mr G’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments.  
 
I’ve considered the contract; the likely financial benefits of the system aren’t included on this 
document. There is a quotation form from P, under the section ‘Our Prediction of the 
Performance of the Proposed System’ it directs Mr G to a ‘Predicted System Performance’, 
however Mr G has said he didn’t receive this document. 
 
Given what I’ve seen there was no way for Mr G to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised. Mr G has said the financial benefits were 
discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not including information about them.  
 
Mr G has provided a document signed by himself and P’s representative at the point of sale, 
where he’s agreed that he fully understood the year-on-year planner that was explained by 
P’s representative. Mr G has said no further documents were provided by P, so I can’t see 
he was given a copy of the planner, or what the planner contained. But I’ve looked at a copy 
of P’s website from late 2013, on the main page it states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
 
 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. And I also think given this it’s likely the 
year-on-year planner explained by P’s representative, involved a discussion about the 
benefits the system would make.   
 
Importantly here I think the website also supports Mr G’s testimony that P’s representative 
told him, the monthly payments, and savings he would receive would cover his monthly 
finance payments.  
 
So given all of the above, I find what Mr G’s said believable, I think P’s website and the 
signed document regarding the year-on-year planner, from the point of sale, supports his 
testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a 
key reason to purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from 
the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mr G would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr G’s testimony that he was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by RECC against P. My understanding is that 
the RECC oversees the renewable energy consumer Code and makes sure that its 
members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
 
So, the Panel decided P was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr G has 
complained about, at a similar time he was sold his system. 
 
 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision -  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [P’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Creation have also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 
available on companies house. The report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it 
had serious concerns about the way P was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mr G’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr G’s said happened, or comments on 
the above series of events. Yet Mr G left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing 
loan, with a monthly repayment of £125.65, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden 
he took on I find Mr G’s account of what he was told by P credible and persuasive. 
Specifically, that the monthly payments and savings he would receive would cover his 
monthly finance payments, and if he’d not been told this he wouldn’t have entered into the 
agreement. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,507.80 per year. Mr G’s system looks like it’s performing less 
than the estimate on his MCS certificate. However, importantly here the system has not and 
would not produce enough benefits based on the actual and estimated output, to be self-
funding within the term of the loan, even taking into account Mr G ended up paying in total 
around £14,238 towards the system.  
 
So, these statements were not true. I think P’s representative must reasonably have been 
aware that Mr G’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are 
elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, 
I think P’s representative would have known that Mr G’s system would not produce enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr G. 
 
Considering Mr G’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, P’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the fact it hasn’t 
commented on or disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr G a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr G was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr G went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
 
 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr G’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr G in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr G 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr G’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.  
 
Fair compensation 
  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr G and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. The investigator 
recommended Creation recalculate the agreement as if the system was self-funding within 
the loan term rather than over the 8 years Mr G said he was promised. Mr G hasn’t 
disagreed with this recommendation, and has recently told us, he can’t remember whether P 
said over 8 years or the term of the loan. Mr G has said P told him that the monthly 
payments and savings he would receive would cover his monthly finance payments, which 
were payable over 10 years, and I think this is further supported by P’s website and the 
findings by RECC. So, on balance, taking into account everything I’ve seen I think the fairest 
way to resolve things is to use the 10-year estimate that our investigator decided.  
 
So, Creation should repay Mr G a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably 
have expected as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr G’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan 
agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr G received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr G received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr G 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s refusal to look at Mr G’s s.140A complaint, caused him 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, I agree with the investigator, and in 
addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr G £100. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr G’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit, monthly repayments, and final lump sum) 
Mr G has made towards the solar panel system up until the early date of settlement – 
A 
• 
Use Mr G’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
original loan term* – B 
• 
Calculate the difference, between what Mr G actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement of the complaint** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr G  
• 
Pay Mr G £100 compensation 
*Where Mr G has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2024. 
  
 
Helen Boulton-Agg 
Ombudsman 
 
