DRN-4079264
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk 
(‘Creation’) in relation to a solar panel system he purchased using a fixed-sum loan from 
Creation. 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “M”, 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr S contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service because he was unhappy about his 
purchase of the system and didn’t know what to do about it. He said that he was interested 
in reducing his outgoings prior to retirement and was told by M, which cold-called looking to 
sell solar panels, that the system would pay for itself – in effect the system would be free 
because the financial benefits of the system would cover the loan repayments making it self-
funding. However, this hadn’t happened and he’s actually worse off since the financial 
benefits have not covered the loan repayments. 
We asked Creation to look into this matter. Creation dismissed Mr S’s concerns since it said 
under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules Mr S’s complaint 
was time-barred. Creation said the system was sold to him more than six years before he 
raised the issue, and more than three years after he ought to have realised there was a 
problem. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S asked us to look into what had happened.
Our Investigator considered Mr S’s complaint, they said that:

Mr S could make a claim under Section 140A of the CCA (s.140A) because the 
complaint related to his relationship with Creation which was still ongoing, and he’d 
have six years after the end of the relationship (when the loan agreement ends) to 
make such a claim alleging the relationship was unfair on him – so the complaint was 
not time-barred under the DISP Rules. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation due to what M told Mr S about the system. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr S keep the system and Creation adjust the loan to 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding – that he’d pay no more than the benefit 
he is likely to receive over the term of the loan. 
Creation did not respond to our Investigator within a reasonable time. Creation had some 
concerns about our approach to this type of complaint, which it has discussed with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service more generally. But Creation is aware of our approach and 
our reasons for this and has received final decisions on similar complaints which explain our 
approach in detail. So, I’ve been asked to make a decision on this complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint. The event complained of is 
Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continues, in an alleged unfair 
relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship was ongoing at the time the complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, so the complaint has been brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the Court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
Court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider, as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship, those 
negotiations, and arrangements, by M – for which Creation were responsible under s.56 – 
when considering whether it is likely Creation acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr S has said that he was interested in reducing his outgoings prior to retirement and M told 
him that the system would achieve that goal – in effect the system would be free because 
the financial benefits would cover the loan repayments. However, this hasn’t happened, and 
Mr S’s outgoings have increased due to the financial benefits of the system being less than 
the monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr S to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system would not be self-funding, since this 
could be important when thinking about how plausible and persuasive Mr S’s recollection is. 
The loan agreement sets out what Mr S agreed to pay for the system:

Purchase price
£9,095.00

Deposit 
£0.00

Interest charge
£5,087.20

Arrangement fee
£135.00

120 repayments of 
£119.31 per month

Total amount payable £14,317.20
So, the loan agreement made clear what Mr S had to pay for the system. 
The contract and other sales documents given to Mr S set out the following information 
about the system (along with some technical and contractual information which is not 
relevant to this decision):

Purchase price 
£9,095.00

Expected generation 2,617 kWh per year
The sales documents do not provide any description or explanation of the financial benefits 
of the system. So, it appears that Mr S would’ve had to rely entirely upon what he M’s sales 
representative told him. 
I’ve looked at a copy of M’s website from July 2013 to see if it can shed any light on how M 
sold solar panels around that time. It does not provide any information about Photo-Voltaic 
Solar Panel installations or their benefits. So, there is nothing there to make me question 
what Mr S has said. 
Ultimately, there is no compelling evidence to suggest that M would not have promoted the 
system as self-funding. Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr S has said. 
Yet, with no prior interest, Mr S agreed to purchase the system using an interest-bearing 
loan, with a monthly repayment of around £119, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on, and the lack of other evidence to call into 
question what he recalls, I find Mr S’s account of what M told him to be plausible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had M not assured him that the system would be self-funding 
and would reduce his outgoings. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,352 per year. Given the reasonable assumptions that might 
have been used around the time of sale (for FIT rates, electricity unit rates and inflation), I do 
not think that M could reasonably have believed that purchasing the system using the loan 
would reduce Mr S’s outgoings in the short or medium term. 
By my calculations, using reasonable assumptions at the time of sale it would have been 
reasonable to say the financial benefits of the system would exceed the total payable under 
the loan agreement after around 17 years, but that for the duration of the loan Mrs S’s 
outgoings would increase due to the loan repayments exceeding the financial benefits the 
system could provide. Had Mr S been told that, I do not think he would’ve agreed to the 
purchase. Mr S’s system has been performing better than expected in terms of electricity 
generated, but despite this it still does not appear that the system will pay for itself within the 
loan term. 
So, I have concluded that M’s statements about the system’s financial benefits 
reducing Mr S’s outgoings were not true. M’s representative ought reasonably to have 
been aware that Mr S’s system would not have produced benefits at the level required 
to achieve a reduction in Mr S’s outgoings during the term of the loan. 
Considering Mr S’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the lack of evidence to contradict what he has said, I think it likely M 
gave Mr S a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr S was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to meet or 
exceed the loan repayments during the term of the loan. But, even if they did not have that 
effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr S went into the transaction. 
Either way, M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr S’s point of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr S in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that, because of this, the relationship between Mr S 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan that Mr S 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr S a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr S’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr S received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so Mr S pays no more than that. 
To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr S received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr S will need to supply up to date details, 
where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to 
Creation. For periods where Mr S cannot provide this information, Creation can make 
reasonable assumptions – Creation is aware of our expectations in this regard. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s unreasonable dismissal of Mr S’s complaint caused Mr S 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr S £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr S’s complaint. 
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk should: 

Calculate the total payments Mr S has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr S’s bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr S 

Use Mr S’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan. 

Pay Mr S an additional £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience cause 
by Creation dismissing Mr S’s claim when it ought to have been evident to Creation 
the complaint was not time-barred. 
*Where Mr S cannot provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk should complete 
the calculation using known and reasonably assumed benefits.
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk considers that it’s 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
