 
 
DRN-5107039 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly told her that her 
account had been cleared, and this led her to take out other finance, causing financial 
hardship. 
What happened 
Miss M contacted Creation in January 2024, and was told that her outstanding balance was 
£120.76, and that pending payments would clear this, and her account would be closed.  
Unfortunately, this was an error, and the outstanding balance was actually £740.72. This 
meant Miss M had further amounts still to repay. She’s explained that this caused her 
financial hardship, as she’d believed no further sums were owing, so had taken out finance 
for a bathroom. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but thought it was fair for Creation 
to require payment of the correct outstanding amount. He thought its offer of £150 
compensation was fair. 
Miss M disagreed, and asked that her complaint be passed to an ombudsman. She 
explained the matter is causing her significant anxiety, and is affecting her ability to take out 
a mortgage. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’m very sorry to hear of the anxiety Miss M is experiencing. I can understand the matter 
must be very worrying. And I can see that Miss M has taken out further finance, which she’s 
explained she wouldn’t have done, had she thought there was a sum still owing to Creation. 
I’ve thought carefully about what’s happened. There’s no doubt Creation made an error. But 
I think it contacted Miss M within a reasonable timeframe, to explain this, and give her the 
correct outstanding balance. It also offered her £150 compensation. It said that if she was 
experiencing difficulty making repayments, that she should contact it for assistance. I think 
this is fair. 
As the money was legitimately owing, I think it reasonable Creation should require for it to be 
paid back. I can’t say with certainty that the repayment of this sum is the sole reason for 
Miss M experiencing financial difficulty. But, if she is struggling with the repayments, I’d urge 
her to contact Creation on the number it provided her with in its letter, to look into an 
affordable repayment plan. I’d also urge her to consider accepting the £150 compensation 
offered, if she hasn’t already. 
My final decision 
For the reasons given above, it’s my final decision that the £150 offered by Creation 
 
 
Consumer Finance Ltd is fair. I leave it to Miss M to decide whether she’d like to accept it, if 
she hasn’t already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2025. 
  
 
Elspeth Wood 
Ombudsman 
 
