DRN-2954516
Complaint
Mr H and Ms R have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected 
their claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr H and Ms R bought solar panels for their home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr H and Ms R into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr H and Ms R’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr H and Ms R, and that fair redress would 
be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Creation initially indicated it agreed with our 
adjudicators view but didn’t make an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Mr H and Ms R have also informed us that they’re account with Creation is in arrears and 
have asked that their credit file remain unaffected by the arrears. Our adjudicator explained 
to Creation that we still felt the self-funding redress was fair, and that if the loan had been 
self-funding, we are satisfied the consumer would’ve made the payments. So, she asked 
Creation to ensure their credit file remained unaffected by the arrears. Creation did not 
respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H and Ms R were not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr H and Ms R fairly and they lost out because of what 
Creation did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr H and Ms R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr H and Ms R’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H and Ms R 
from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H and Ms R re paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have Creation needs to reimburse Mr H and Ms R accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr H and Ms R by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr H and Ms R’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H and Ms R in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H and Ms R’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mr H and Ms R have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to 
be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Ms R and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Ms R and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr H and Ms R accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept
If Mr H and Ms R have settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr H and Ms R the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
If Mr H and Ms R have settled the loan by refinancing, Mr H and Ms R should supply 
evidence of the refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr H and Ms R paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Ms R receive their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr H and Ms R paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Ms R receive their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr H and Ms R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
Additionally, I understand Mr H and Ms R’s loan account with Creation is in arrears as they 
have stopped making payments due to the ongoing complaint with Creation. I think Creation 
needs to waive any late fees that have been added to the account and remove any negative 
markers from the consumers’ credit file as I’m satisfied that, if the panels had been self-
funding, as they were represented to be, that Mr H and Ms R would’ve made their monthly 
payments. 
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H and Ms R 
first contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr H and Ms R’s complaint. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
