DRN-2270621
The complaint
Mrs H complains that furniture supplied with finance from creation Consumer Finance 
Limited trading as Creation.Co.Uk wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to 
purchase some sofas from a retailer.
When the sofas were delivered in October 2019 Mrs H noticed pen and mud marks. A third 
party attended and inspected and cleaned the sofas.
Later in October 2019 Mrs H raised concerns about the material and a further pen mark. The 
third party attended again and cleaned the sofa. It inspected the material and said the 
creasing was a characteristic.
Mrs H complained to Creation. In response, Creation said the third-party inspection had 
found no fault with the sofas.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said there wasn’t enough evidence to say 
that the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs H didn’t agree so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H acquired her sofa under a fixed sum loan agreement. The relevant law says the 
furniture should be of satisfactory quality when supplied. In order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that the furniture was faulty when supplied, or that it wasn’t 
satisfactory for some other relevant reason such as not being as described, not being fit for 
purpose or not being durable.
When the sofa was delivered, it had marks on it. These marks have been successfully 
removed by cleaning by a third party, so I won’t be focussing on this in my assessment of 
whether the sofa was of satisfactory quality.
Mrs H’s main complaint is about the material. She says it creases easily.
I’ve looked at the inspection report. This says there isn’t a fault with the furniture. There are 
some photos with the report which show creases in the material. But the report says this is a 
characteristic of the material and that the creases will disappear when the material is 
dressed.
I understand that Mrs H isn’t happy with the outcome of the inspection. However, based on 
what I’ve seen, I’m unable to conclude that there’s a fault with the material which makes the 
sofa of unsatisfactory quality.
Since referring her complaint to this service, Mrs H has raised further concerns about the 
insides of the cushions. She says the foam has moved around and caused the cushions to 
be lumpy. She’s provided some photos showing this.
I’ve taken into account what Mrs H has said and I’ve looked at the photos. But I haven’t seen 
anything to suggest that this was a problem at the point of supply. It isn’t mentioned in the 
inspection report. I appreciate that the issue may have arisen subsequently, but the relevant 
law says that where a fault occurs after 6 months from the point of supply its up to the 
consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. And I’m not persuaded 
that Mrs H has done this.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to conclude that the furniture is of unsatisfactory 
quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
