DRN-3351995
The complaint
Mr I complains that a new boiler was not installed with reasonable care and skill. Because 
the installation was paid for with credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, he says 
that it is equally liable with the supplier to put things right.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mr I entered into an agreement with a company, G, for the supply and 
installation of a household boiler at a cost of just over £2,000. The supply and installation 
were to be paid for by a loan arranged by G and provided by Creation. Mr I was to repay the 
loan over two years, starting a year after the installation. 
Mr I says that there were a number of problems with the installation. These fell into two 
broad categories: problems with the safety of the electrical work connected with the new 
boiler; and damage to his kitchen cupboards, work surfaces and splashback. 
Mr I contacted an electrician to check the installation. He identified a number of issues which 
made the installation unsafe. They included a cracked socket, wires that were not sufficiently 
well insulated, electrical wires too close to gas pipes, insufficient earthing and a failure to 
meet wiring regulations. He indicated that the cost of putting things right – including a call-
out charge and investigation – would be £455. 
Mr I also said that there was blow-torch damage to the kitchen worktop and splashback and 
that a cupboard had been cut into without his agreement. He provided photographs of the 
damage and two quotes to replace the damaged worktops and splashback. 
Mr I complained to G and to Creation. Creation did not respond other than to say that it was 
waiting for further information from G. Mr I therefore referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not think that the work had been carried out to a satisfactory standard, for 
the reasons Mr I had given. She recommended that Creation pay Mr I the costs of the 
rectification work. Creation, despite reminders, did not respond, although it appears that it 
did receive some communication from G saying that Mr I had not been in touch for several 
months. The case was therefore passed to me for further consideration.        
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions, a customer who has a claim for breach of contract against a supplier of goods or 
services can also bring that claim against the provider of credit used to pay for those goods 
or services. One such condition is that the credit is provided under arrangements between 
the supplier and the lender. In this case, the loan agreement between Mr I and Creation was 
arranged by G, and the contract for the supply and installation of the boiler was between Mr I 
and G. I am satisfied that the necessary relationships were present for section 75 to apply. 
The contract between Mr I and G was to be read as including a term that the boiler would be 
installed with reasonable care and skill. In my view, that includes the safety of the installation 
and not causing unnecessary damage when carrying out the work. 
The report provided by the electrician set out a number of areas of concern and explained 
the work needed to make the installation safe. It also provided an indication of the cost of 
remedial work. None of that should have been necessary, since the boiler installation and 
the associated electrical work should have been carried out in line with relevant safety 
standards and regulations. I believe it is reasonable to require Creation to cover these. 
The photographs that Mr I has provided do show some minor damage to the worktop and 
splashback. The quotes he has provided are for complete replacements, even though the 
damage is quite limited. Mr I has said however that the original material is no longer 
available, and Creation has not suggested, for example, that a cheaper repair might be 
feasible. Mr I’s worktop might therefore be an improvement on what he had before the new 
boiler was installed. In the absence of any comment from Creation about alternatives, 
however, I do not believe that is unfair or unreasonable.              
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Creation should cover the costs of the remedial electrical 
work and replacing the worktop and splashback. As far as the latter is concerned, I think a 
fair award would be the average of the two quotes that Mr I obtained.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr I’s complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay him £455 in respect of electrical work and £2,114.50 to cover the cost of the worktop 
and splashback. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
