 
 
DRN-4949870 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has not met its obligations in regard to 
a fixed sum loan agreement taken to pay for a carpet. 
 
What happened 
In October 2021 Mrs B bought a carpet from a carpet company and borrowed money from 
Creation to pay for it. After some months Mrs B was unhappy with the carpet saying it looked 
warn and matted and wasn’t fit for purpose. The carpet company has said there was no 
manufacturing issue so didn’t offer Mrs B any remedy. So she took her dispute to Creation. 
 
Creation considered her dispute and considered the issues Mrs B points to and concluded 
that they are as being as a result of fair wear and tear. Unhappy with Creation’s stance on 
the matter Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. 
 
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that Creation hadn’t treated Mrs B fairly and 
that Mrs B should be refunded in full for the carpet. But Creation didn’t agree so this decision 
came to me to decide. 
 
I issued a provisional decision dated 24 June 2024 explaining I did not think Mrs B’s 
complaint should be upheld and explaining why. Creation agreed with my position. Mrs B 
said she’d respond, then asked for an extension to the deadline for responses and in the end 
didn’t provide arguments about my position. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs B asked for a short extension in response to my provisional decision which was granted. 
So I’m satisfied she received my provisional decision and had the means to respond to it. 
She hasn’t provided her arguments to this service having said she would. And over a week 
has passed since the extension she asked for has elapsed. So I’m satisfied she’s had fair 
opportunity to respond and hasn’t done so. 
 
Accordingly as neither party has provided any arguments contrary to my provisional decision 
I see no persuasive reason to deviate from the position which I set out and have repeated 
below (save for some minor amendments to reflect the final nature of this decision). So it is 
my final decision that this complaint does not succeed. 
 
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about the carpet company. This is 
because it isn’t within the jurisdiction of this service for these types of complaints. 
This decision is solely about what Creation did or didn’t do in relation to its 
obligations in relation to Mrs B.  
 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
 
 
 
Before considering whether a ‘like claim’ can be made here the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA for short) sets out pre-requisite rules including with regard to financial 
limits and the required relationship between Debtor, Creditor and Supplier. Having 
considered the facts here I’m satisfied these are in place for a ‘like claim’ to be 
considered against Creation. For such a claim to be successful it needs to be 
established that there was either misrepresentation or breach of contract by the 
carpet supplier with regard to the supply of the carpet. 
 
Mrs B argues that the carpet is worn and matted and not fit for purpose. Essentially 
she’s arguing that it is of unsatisfactory quality. She hasn’t complained that at the 
point of sale she was misrepresented to. Claims under Section 75 of the CCA allow 
debtors to hold creditors to a ‘like claim’ as to that which they have against the 
supplier. This means Mrs B can hold Creation as responsible for the quality of the 
carpet as she can hold the carpet supplier. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out 
what unsatisfactory quality means. This includes that every contract to supply goods 
is to be treated as including a term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory and 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory, taking account of; any description of the goods, 
the price or other consideration for the goods and all the other relevant 
circumstances. And the quality of goods should be considered through the 
appropriate lenses such as ‘fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind 
are usually supplied,’ ‘appearance and finish’, ‘freedom from minor defects’, safety, 
and durability. 
 
Here Mrs B has provided photos of the carpet saying that within the first year it was 
matted and looking worn. I’ve also considered the carpet seller’s position on the 
matter put forward by Creation. It says the issues with the carpet are not 
manufacturing defects as the issues were caused due to normal foot traffic on the 
affected areas. As such its saying that it believes having considered Mrs B’s 
evidence that the carpet was of satisfactory quality at the point of delivery. 
 
I’ve considered the evidence Mrs B has provided and I’m not persuaded Creation has 
treated her unfairly by deciding that she’d not shown the carpet was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of delivery. I say this because although there is clearly some 
compaction and flattening of the carpet this is to be expected after regular usage. I’ve 
not seen persuasive evidence of the carpet being worn to the underlayer or the 
carpet splitting down to the underflooring. Mrs B is complaining about the carpet 
appearance and wearing and not the underflooring or underlay or the grippers so the 
costs of those should be removed from consideration. Mrs B’s carpet was just under 
£22 per square metre (total cost of just over £387) and thus is not in the expensive or 
luxury range of carpets. The photos she’s provided show flattening of the pile but 
having considered these photographs and the evidence from the carpet suppliers 
and having considered these issues through the lens of appearance and finish, cost, 
and durability, I’m not persuaded that Mrs B has shown Creation that this carpet was 
suffering from manufacturing defect or was of unsatisfactory quality at purchase. 
 
So I think that Creation has nothing further to do here. It’s clear the carpet hasn’t met 
Mrs B’s expectations but that’s not the same as her showing that it’s of unsatisfactory 
quality to Creation.  
 
I should add for completeness the remedy the Investigator described in their 
assessment of the matter was substantially wrong. Firstly they got the cost of the 
carpet wrong, which is significantly less (£387) than the remedy awarded (£607.18). 
Furthermore if Mrs B’s complaint was to be successful, either the carpet would have 
to be returned to Creation with a fair usage deduction in the award (so less than 
 
 
£387) and leaving Mrs B without carpet, or the other available remedy would be price 
reduction, which would have to consider Mrs B keeping the carpet and fair usage, 
which would mean that award would be similarly significantly less than the £387 paid. 
I mentioned this so that if in response to my provisional decision Mrs B provides new 
persuasive evidence that the carpet is of unsatisfactory quality, then she is fully 
aware of the limitations of the assessment issued and the consequences of that 
(which would be a significantly smaller award than that made by the Investigator). 
Mrs B didn’t respond with any evidence or persuasive arguments here. 
 
Mrs B points to the ’20 year guarantee’ that she says is provided by the 
manufacturer. But there isn’t persuasive evidence here that there is any defect with 
the carpet. I appreciate she might have expected the pile to remain heightened but 
there’s no guarantee of that in the evidence I’ve seen. Rather what has happened 
here is normal compaction of the pile through usage. And that guarantee is provided 
by the manufacturer and not the carpet company here or indeed Creation. The carpet 
company here provide a one year warranty which has expired now. But in any event 
I’m not persuaded that any warranty claim would have been successful for the same 
reasons of not being persuaded that this carpet was of unsatisfactory quality. 
 
Mrs B has said the ongoing nature of this matter has impacted her mental health. I’m 
very sorry to hear this. But Creation is entitled to ask for an Ombudsman’s decision 
as are complainants. And it has chosen to exercise this right here. 
 
Mrs B points to Creation and indeed the carpet sellers telling her wrong information 
during the investigation of her concerns. I can see that there was confusion over Mrs 
B having had previous loans and indeed this loan included payment for furniture 
which she isn’t complaining about here. But I’m not persuaded that this was done 
maliciously or unreasonably. From what I can see it was just the result of confusion 
as to the facts of the matter that Mrs B was complaining about. 
 
Having considered all of Mrs B’s arguments and evidence provided and for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision and this final decision I’m not persuaded she’s lost out 
because of how Creation treated her. I’m not persuaded there is a breach of contract here or 
a misrepresentation which Creation should be held responsible for. Accordingly Mrs B’s 
complaint is not successful.  
 
My final decision 
I do not uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. It has nothing further 
to do in this matter. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2024. 
  
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas 
Ombudsman 
 
