DRN-2461936
The complaint
Mr W complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.’s (“Creation”) decision not to 
provide him with credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit to Mr W
because he didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to
share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
Whilst I understand that Mr W has provided evidence his credit score with the credit 
reference agencies is generally excellent I don’t think that means Creation necessarily had 
to accept his application. This was a six-month free credit application and I think it’s fair to 
say that in those circumstances a business would apply particularly stringent internal criteria.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think Creation have been unreasonable here and I’m not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
