DRN-2795651
The complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (CCF) wrongly declined his 
application for credit. He would like CCF to apologise. And to accept it made the wrong 
decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here . Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-

I do appreciate it must be very frustrating for Mr J to have had a credit application 
unexpectedly declined and not to know the specific reason why. Unfortunately, as our 
investigator has already explained, CCF gave us its reasons for declining Mr J’s 
credit application in confidence. So, we can only summarise what we have been told 
which is that there was an issue with completing identification and verification 
checks.

CCF has given us details of Mr J’s application. And I can confirm from the details I 
have seen identification and verification was the issue. Based on that information I 
didn’t think it was unreasonable for CCF to reject Mr J’s credit application.

CCF can set its own criteria for lending including the checks it uses and can chose 
who it offers credit to. It’s not for us to tell CCF what checks to use or who to lend to 
– that’s a commercial decision for it to make. So, I can’t reasonably ask CCF to 
apologise and accept it should have agreed Mr J’s credit application as Mr J would 
like.

I appreciate Mr J’s concerns that he might experience the same problem with other 
credit lenders. That’s not necessarily the case since, as I have explained above, 
lenders can set their own criteria for agreeing credit or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
