DRN-2293619
The complaint
Mr M complains that he purchased a sofa and a chair which were of unsatisfactory quality. 
They were financed by a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd and he wants them to 
provide him with a refund and write off the loan.
What happened
Mr M bought a sofa and a chair in 2017 from a retailer. The purchase was financed by a 
fixed sum loan agreement provided by Creation. The price of the goods was £2,145.20, the 
loan was for 48 months, interest free, with monthly repayments of £50. Mr M also purchased 
a warranty for the sofa which was added onto the finance agreement. 
Around a year after the purchase, Mr M said that the sofa started to become too 
uncomfortable to sit on. In summary, he said it sagged on one side of the seat cushion and 
when he sat down on it, he could feel the timber frame. He said this caused him great 
discomfort and didn’t think the sofa was fit for purpose or reasonably durable. He said he 
complained to the retailer, but they refused to assist him because of how much time had 
passed since the sale. 
Mr M then raised a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“S75”) with Creation. 
He said he wanted his money back for the sofa and for the loan to be written off. Creation 
arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out to determine whether there was a 
fault with the sofa. 
The inspector noted that there were no manufacturing defects with the sofa and that all of 
the components were functioning correctly and as expected. The inspector did note that the 
interior had softened which gave the impression of it dipping but he said this was to be 
expected with any sofa over time and with use.  
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she wasn’t persuaded 
there had been a breach of contract by the retailer as the independent inspection had 
concluded the sofa wasn’t faulty or not fit for purpose. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what’s fair and reasonable I’m required to take the law into account, which 
includes S75. I’ve therefore had this in mind when thinking about whether Creation acted 
fairly in declining Mr M’s request for a refund and for the loan to be cancelled. 
The general effect of S75 is that if Mr M has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the supplier of the sofa and chair, he can bring a like claim against 
the credit provider (in this case, Creation), providing certain conditions are met first. For 
completeness, I’m satisfied those requirements are met here. 
Mr M says the sofa and chair were not sufficiently durable nor were they fit for purpose. This 
is because he says the cushions sagged to such a degree that he could feel the timber 
frame when he sat down. He said the sofa functioned fine for the first 12 months and the 
chair for the first 18 months. The difference in how quickly they deteriorated he says is due 
to them not using the chair as often. 
Mr M has given a detailed account of the issues he says the sofa has and while I can 
understand how frustrated he is with its quality, I’m not persuaded Creation have acted 
unfairly in not upholding his claim and complaint. 
I say this because an independent inspection has been carried out on the sofa. I’ve reviewed 
the photographs from that inspection alongside the inspector’s comments. In his view the 
sofa isn’t faulty and while the cushions have had settlement over time, he says they are still 
fit for purpose and functioning as expected. 
The photographs also demonstrate that the internal and underside components of the sofa 
are intact and not broken. While Mr M strongly disagrees with the inspector’s conclusions 
about the sofa’s fitness for purpose and durability, I haven’t seen anything persuasive to say 
I should reasonably disregard the independent inspector’s comments. He does, after all, 
appear to be qualified to make assessments on the quality of the furniture. 
As it appears, on balance, that the sofa is fit for purpose, not faulty and reasonably durable, 
I’m not persuaded there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the furniture. For this reason, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly in declining Mr M’s claim 
and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman
