DRN-4046993
The complaint
Mr M complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) hasn’t fairly considered his claim 
under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to an item he says wasn’t 
delivered.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr M ordered a smartwatch with a supplier, who I will refer to as T. It cost 
around £400 and it was financed by a 12 month credit agreement with Creation. Mr M says 
within an hour of placing the order, he changed his mind and cancelled it. 
A few days later, he says he received a text message to say an item was being delivered to 
his address by a courier company who I will refer to as G. Mr M says he was unable to 
accept the delivery so he requested for it to be left inside his brown bin outside his home. 
He later received confirmation the item had been delivered but he says when he checked the 
bin, there was no package. Uncertain what item was being delivered, he checked his emails 
and found he had received messages from T confirming the smartwatch had been 
dispatched and another email saying it was delivered. Mr M said this was a surprise as he 
wasn’t expecting a delivery from T because as far as he was concerned he had cancelled 
the order.
He called T to complain there was no parcel inside his brown bin. They maintained the 
smartwatch had been delivered. Unhappy with their response, he complained to Creation as 
the supplier of the finance. In summary, Creation accepted the findings of T and rejected the 
section 75 claim. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
initially recommended the complaint was upheld, stating there was insufficient evidence the 
smartwatch was delivered. In response, Creation provided further evidence from T such as 
their ‘lost in transit’ investigation notes which included a picture taken by courier company G 
which they say demonstrates the delivery package was left in Mr M’s brown bin. 
In light of the new evidence, the investigator changed their opinion and said the complaint 
shouldn’t be upheld. He said on balance, he was persuaded the watch was delivered to Mr 
M’s address. Mr M disagreed and maintained his position. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr M’s complaint. I’ll explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods (T) or the provider of credit (Creation) if there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I’m satisfied the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is 
present in this case therefore I find Mr M was able to make a section 75 claim. 
Non receipt of an item that has been ordered and/or paid for would be considered a breach 
of contract. Therefore when reviewing this complaint, I’ve thought about whether Creation 
fairly considered Mr M’s section 75 claim.
I’ve carefully reviewed the evidence and submissions from all parties concerned regarding 
the delivery of the smartwatch. 
Mr M says he cancelled the order for the smartwatch therefore he can’t be held responsible 
for what happened to it. There is insufficient evidence of the order being cancelled, but 
neither T nor Creation have disputed this so I accept Mr M cancelled the order. However 
when doing so, I’m unable to say with any certainty what he was told about this or the next 
steps he needed to take. T has said at the time the order was cancelled, it was too late to 
cancel the delivery process but they say Mr M still had the ability to reject the delivery or 
return the item to them. Given the circumstances, I find that to be reasonable. T sent an 
email to Mr M confirming the smartwatch had been dispatched so I find he ought reasonably 
to have known the item was going to be delivered to him. Although the order was cancelled, 
it’s clear the delivery process itself couldn’t be therefore Mr M was responsible for ensuring 
the unwanted smartwatch was returned successfully to T. 
G sent a text message to Mr M confirming a package would be delivered that day. I note Mr 
M comments he was uncertain what was due to be delivered. However I’ve seen a template 
copy of the message he would’ve received and it shows T’s brand logo so I’m satisfied it was 
made clear to Mr M that the delivery was from them. Equally there is no suggestion he was 
expecting any other deliveries from T so it’s fair to say it was the smartwatch. 
By Mr M’s own admission (which is also supported by T’s evidence), when notified by G 
about the delivery, he requested for it to be left in the brown bin outside of his home. While 
entitled to choose such an option, it does come with some potential risks as it’s not 
necessarily a safe or secure place. According to G, Mr M would’ve had to agree to accept 
such liability when making the request and to agree no authorised signature would be 
needed. As the request was accepted by G, I believe it’s safe to assume Mr M agreed to 
such liability so I can’t say G did anything wrong by following his request. 
G has provided a copy of a picture showing what they say is the package inside Mr M’s 
brown bin. Mr M questions whether this is indeed his bin and whether the package was 
actually addressed to him. Having looked at the picture, there are no defining marks for me 
to determine if it was Mr M’s bin such as his house number, nor can I see the name label on 
the package. However given he asked for it to be left in the bin, he received confirmation it 
had been delivered and there’s a picture showing a package in a brown bin, I can 
understand why on balance Creation determined the package had been delivered to Mr M.
Mr M maintains no package was left in the bin. He also says there’s a possibility it was 
stolen from an unidentified person or G’s delivery driver. These are strong allegations to 
make especially against G’s delivery driver and there is insufficient evidence to support such 
claims. Although there is a possibility the package may have been stolen from the bin, for 
the reasons highlighted above, T asserts it was correctly delivered and once in Mr M’s 
‘possession’, they aren’t liable if it is later stolen. I believe this argument raised by T to be a 
fair one. I find Creation nor T can reasonably be held liable for what may have happened to 
the smartwatch once it had been delivered as per Mr M’s instructions. 
Overall, I’m satisfied Creation considered the information provided by Mr M, T and G. Based 
on the evidence presented, I can understand why it didn’t think a breach of contract occurred 
and the smartwatch was successfully delivered to Mr M as per his instructions. Therefore I 
find their decision to reject the section 75 claim and not agreeing to cancel the finance 
agreement to be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr M’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman
