DRN-3784796
The complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) put a default on his credit file 
with no notice. He would like the default removed, and compensation for not acting 
appropriately.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won’t repeat the again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so  I have reached the following conclusions:-

There is no dispute that Creation didn’t send Mr F a default notice prior to putting a 
default on his credit file. Creation has evidenced it sent Mr F several letters about his 
account so says he would have been aware his account was in arrears. I don’t think 
Mr F disputes that, he knew his account was in arrears but was making regular 
payments towards the outstanding balance. But the last letter Creation sent 
confirmed Mr F was on a temporary repayment plan which would last for a certain 
time during which he would need to make regular repayments. It wasn’t a default 
notice.

Creation has told us there was an outstanding balance on the account and  a 
reduced payment plan in place when it sold the account on. It followed both its own 
processes and FCA rules in not defaulting the account until it was sold. It’s not for us 
to comment on Creation’s internal processes for managing debt. However, 
registering a default with credit reference agencies can  have a serious impact on a 
borrower. The relevant law and guidance says that  if a lender is intending to apply a 
default it should send relevant notice of this action and the steps needed to avoid 
this. Creation didn’t do this and I think it should have.

Mr F was making regular payments towards the debt – and these weren’t token 
payments. I think he was managing his debt responsibly and the outstanding amount 
wasn’t excessive.  So, had he received a default notice I think it’s likely he would 
have tried to pay off the outstanding amount if he could have done so.  Whilst its 
important credit files accurately reflect account history I do think it’s appropriate here 
to remove the default marker from Mr F’s credit file. With no warning of the default he 
had no opportunity to settle his account which I think had he been able to do so he 
would have.

I think some compensation is appropriate in this case for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator recommended £100 compensation which I 
think is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Creation Consumer Finance should:-

Remove the default marker from Mr F’s credit file

Pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
