DRN-1205978
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Creation) unfairly 
restricted his credit card. 
What happened
Mr H's Creation credit card was declined when he used it for relatively small amounts at 
certain venues. Creation said it was operating within its risk parameters, and that it hadn't 
done anything wrong. It accepted Mr H may have experienced inconvenience and 
embarrassment when the card was declined, and paid £30 in recognition of this.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didn't consider 
Creation's assumptions in identifying the risks to Mr H's card were fair or reasonable. 
She said Creation should pay Mr H £200 in addition to what it had already paid.
Creation didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation points out that it is able to restrict credit under the card's terms and conditions. 
Clause 18 of the terms and conditions says:
'...In addition to our other rights under this Agreement...we may at any time treat your right to 
draw down any further credit as restricted or deferred and take such steps as may be 
necessary to make the restriction or deferment effective.'
I also accept that Creation has an obligation to protect its customers and its business from 
the risk of fraud. This means that genuine transactions are sometimes declined.
Creation has explained why Mr H's card was declined on certain occasions. The card was 
declined because Mr H tried to complete several transactions in quick succession at a 
particular type of venue. But it seems it was the nature of the venues he was in that flagged 
the credit spend as risky.
The risk parameters Creation chooses to use are a commercial matter for the business, and 
not something I can interfere with. So I can't ask Creation to change the risk parameters it 
uses. 
In addition, the account's terms and conditions mean I can't ask Creation to lift the 
restrictions on Mr H's card when he uses it at venues identified by the business as risky. I 
understand Creation has explained to Mr H how the card could be used differently in those 
venues to avoid declined transactions.
But I've considered Mr H's overall management of his account, together with Creation's 
reasons for declining certain transactions. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that 
some of the risk assumptions made by Creation in restricting Mr H's card are not fair or 
reasonable. So on this occasion I consider it reasonable for Creation to pay additional 
compensation to Mr H, in recognition of the embarrassment caused when his card was 
declined. 
Putting things right
Creation should pay £200 to Mr H, in addition to the £30 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (trading 
as Creation) to pay £200 to Mr H in addition to the £30 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman
