DRN-3714743
The complaint
Mr D complains that he has not received a refund that he was promised by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr D bought a bed costing £2,860.77 from a retailer, which I’ll refer to as “B”. 
He paid a deposit of £860.77 and took out a 36-month loan with Creation for the balance of 
£2,000.00. Under the loan agreement, Mr D was to pay £55.55 a month from 1 January 
2020 until 1 December 2022. The bed came with a five-year guarantee. 
Mr D says that the bed was faulty and that B agreed to take it back and refund part of the 
purchase price.
Creation’s records show that B refunded £75.00 on 31 January 2020 and a further £982.39 
on 22 March 2021. The latter refund left a balance on the account of £109.16. That was 
repaid by a further monthly payment of £55.55 (taken by direct debit) and a card payment of 
£53.61. The account was closed in May 2021.
In addition, B told Creation that it had refunded £543.59 directly to Mr D. Mr D said he 
thought that was to cover his loss of earnings when he had to stay home to deal with the 
matter.
Mr D says he was told that, if he paid the balance of £53.61, he would receive a £900 
refund. He says he did not however receive the refund that he was promised. Creation says 
that it did not receive any further payments from B and was unable to obtain any further 
information about what had been agreed.
Mr D referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He recommended that Creation refund the £900 that Mr D say was promised and 
resolve matters with B as necessary. He also recommended that Creation pay Mr D £100 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put.
Mr D accepted the investigator’s recommendation. Creation did not, however, and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. 
I noted in my provisional decision that, because the purchase of the bed was financed in part 
with a loan from Creation made under arrangements with B, any claim for breach of contract 
which Mr D might have in respect of the purchase of the bed was one he could bring against 
Creation, as well as against B. 
I noted too that it appeared to be accepted that the bed was defective in some way. That 
was why B had agreed to a partial refund. I did not however have very much information 
about the nature of the defects. It was therefore possible that the refunds agreed were 
enough to put things right. 
I was not persuaded that B had agreed to refund any more than Mr D had already received 
or that he was entitled to any more. 
Mr D and Creation both provided further information in response to my provisional decision.
Creation said that Mr D had contacted B in October 2019 about a dip in the mattress. This 
was returned in January 2020. Mr D explained that he had bought a replacement mattress 
from a different supplier. 
The bed frame had been returned in March 2021. Creation said that B had refunded £982.39 
and that B had refunded £543.59 directly to Mr D. 
Mr D provided screenshots of exchanges with B in which it had indicated he was due a 
refund of just over £1,150. That calculation took into account the use Mr D had had of the 
bed as a proportion of the five-year period of the guarantee.
He also provided a copy of a letter from his employer to B, saying that he had lost earnings 
as a result of the faults with the bed. He said that the £543 refund could have been his loss 
of earnings.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, it is not in dispute that the bed was not of 
satisfactory quality, as it should have been. Nor is it disputed that Creation is equally liable 
for that with B. The main issues for me to consider are (i) whether B and Creation have one 
enough to put things right and (ii) whether Creation agreed to a further refund which has not 
been applied. 
On the first issue, there may be a number of remedies available where goods are not 
satisfactory. They include a full or partial refund, repair, replacement, return of the goods or 
rescission of the contract. Where, as in this case, goods have been used, the retailer can 
deduct a reasonable sum to reflect that use. It is clear from Mr D’s exchanges with B that 
these matters were taken into account when discussing the appropriate refund in this case.
The total refund given in this case was around £1,500, primarily made up of £543.59 paid by 
B and £982.39 deducted from the loan balance. That represents a little over half the price of 
the bed. 
Mr D says he thinks the payment of £543.59 might be compensation for his loss of earnings. 
However, the only evidence in support of that is an undated and unsigned letter, apparently 
from his employer to B, stating the dates on which he had to take unpaid leave. There is no 
calculation of the earnings lost and, perhaps more importantly, no evidence that B agreed to 
meet his claim for loss of earnings. I think it unlikely that it did so, since loss of earnings 
would not usually be recoverable from a seller of goods in connection with a claim of this 
nature. I think it more likely that the payment was in respect of an agreed reduction in price 
or partial refund. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that Mr D has shown that he was entitled to any more 
than he has already received in respect of the problems with the mattress and bed frame. 
I do not believe either that Creation agreed to a further refund, as Mr D has suggested. I 
think there was some confusion about this in discussions about the terms on which the bed 
would be returned. But I think the agreement was that B would make a refund which would, 
in effect, clear the loan balance. I do not believe there was an agreement that Mr D would 
receive a further £900.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr D’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
