DRN-2853535
The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) handled his loan 
account during a period of financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2016 Mr A took out a loan with Creation for £10,000 with monthly repayments of £232. In 
2019 Mr A began to experience financial difficulties due to personal circumstances and was 
unable to make the contractual repayments to the loan account. In September 2019, Mr A 
stopped making payments and the loan fell into arrears.
At the end of October 2019 Mr A spoke to Creation and set up a three-month repayment 
plan. It was agreed that Mr A would pay £50 per month over the three months beginning in 
November 2019. Mr A made the repayment in November 2019 but was unable to make the 
repayment in December 2019 as he says he was out of the country visiting a sick family 
member and was unable to call Creation.
Mr A called Creation in January 2020 when he was back in the country. Mr A says the agent 
refused to accept payment during that call. Creation says the call disconnected and Mr A 
failed to call back to discuss repayment arrangements. Mr A says he wrote to creation 
following this call and never heard back, however Creation states that it sent a reply offering 
a further repayment plan. Mr A never received this letter and so didn’t make any of the 
repayments.
Creation entered a default on Mr A’s credit file against this account at the end of January 
2020 when Mr A’s account was around five months in arrears (based on the contractual 
repayments). However Mr A says it acted unfairly in doing this as he has never received any 
default notices or correspondence about the default and because he had entered into a 
three-month repayment arrangement at the time.
Mr A’s account was passed to a third-party debt collection agency in April 2020 and returned 
to Creation in July 2020. Mr A says, as his account has been incorrectly defaulted, Creation 
acted incorrectly in doing this.
During the course of our investigation Mr A became aware that his account had been sold to 
a third party and he says he was never informed of this. He complains that this shouldn’t 
have happened while he had an ongoing complaint and that he should have been informed 
about the sale.
Our investigator didn’t think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that Mr A broke 
the repayment plan when he didn’t make the payment in December 2019. And as Mr A was 
already in significant arrears, based on his contractual repayments, Creation acted fairly 
when it defaulted the account and passed it to a debt collection agency to recover the debt. 
Mr A didn’t agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that he entered into a repayment arrangement at the end of 2019 to pay £50 
per month for a period of three months from November 2019 – and that isn’t in dispute. 
However having reviewed his account transactions I can see that he hadn’t made his 
contractual repayments in September or October 2019 before he entered into the 
arrangement – so the account was already in arrears at that time.
There is also no dispute that Mr A made the £50 payment required under the repayment 
arrangement in November 2019. However he then failed to make a repayment in December 
2019 and only contacted Creation around the middle of January 2020. But by the time Mr A 
contacted Creation he had already missed a payment in December 2019. I was sorry to hear 
about Mr A’s circumstances around that time, however Creation was only able to act on the 
information it was given – and I can’t see that Mr A spoke to Creation to let it know that he 
wouldn’t be able to make a payment that month. So as far as Creation was aware, Mr A had 
broken his repayment arrangement with it, and it was no longer in place. 
Mr A says Creation refused to take a payment over the phone in January 2020, whereas 
Creation states that the call was disconnected, and Mr A didn’t call back. Had Mr A arranged 
to repay his arrears then he may have been able to avoid a default having been registered 
on his credit file at that stage. Unfortunately the call is no longer available due to the time 
that has passed. But I have Mr A’s account of the call and the call notes from Creation. 
While I appreciate that Mr A feels strongly that Creation refused to take a payment, Creation 
has provided contemporaneous notes of that call which state that Mr A disconnected the call 
and show that he didn’t attempt to call back. These notes suggest that the agent did explain 
that he couldn’t take a payment due to the previous arrangement being broken when the 
December 2019 payment was missed – but that the agent didn’t get the opportunity to 
explain the payment options as Mr A disconnected the call. I find this version of events to be 
persuasive and in line with what Mr A has also told us. So on balance I think it’s likely that 
the call was disconnected, and I don’t think it was unreasonable to expect that Mr A would 
call back, particularly given that he knew there were payments that needed to be made to his 
account.
I have also considered whether Creation acted reasonably in defaulting the account when it 
did. Creation wasn’t able to provide exact copies of the default letters sent to Mr A, which is 
common as these are often generated automatically. However it has sent us a copy of its 
notes showing a letter was sent to Mr A at the end of December 2019 and that the code for 
that letter corresponds with the code used for a default notice. This is shown again at the 
end of January 2020. So, on balance, I think it’s likely that Creation did send Mr A a default 
notice at the end of 2019 when he missed the payment due under his repayment 
arrangement.
At that time, Mr A was nearly four months in arrears. We would generally expect Creation to 
send a default notice once the account was between three and six months in arrears, which I 
think it did here – so I don’t agree that Creation has made an error. The default is registered 
on Mr A’s credit file against this account from the end of January 2020, which is in line with 
the notices I think were sent to him at the end of December 2019 as these would have given 
him around four weeks to meet the conditions of the default notice in order to prevent it 
being registered against Mr A’s credit file.
Mr A has also raised a concern about the information recorded on his credit file and we have 
queried this with Creation who have provided us with evidence to show the information they 
are reporting to the credit reference agencies. This shows that Creation is reporting the 
default date being in January 2020, which is in line with the information it has provided and 
the default notices it says were sent in December 2019.
There has been some confusion about repayment arrangements which were made after the 
default was registered. And while I can see there is some dispute over whether Mr A was 
informed about these arrangements, I don’t think they would have made a difference 
because the default appears to have been registered at that time so while the repayment 
arrangements would have reduced the amount outstanding, I don’t think it’s likely they would 
have changed the status of the account at that time.
Mr A has also questioned why Creation passed his account to a debt collection agency and 
why it was returned at a later date. Creation is able to use third parties to chase debts if it 
chooses to do so, regardless of whether the account is defaulted – although this is more 
common where payments aren’t being made. So I don’t think Creation made a mistake in 
using a third party to chase the debt. Ultimately the third party passed the debt back to 
Creation without providing a reason. Mr A believes this is because Creation made an error, 
however I haven’t seen any evidence of that.
Mr A has said that he believes Creation’s actions mean that an unfair relationship has been 
created. It is generally for a court to decide whether the relationship between the parties are 
unfair, but I have considered his comments when reaching my decision. However Mr A 
hasn’t said anything that makes me think the relationship was unfair and I don’t agree that 
Creation acted unfairly in defaulting this account when it did as I’ve explained above.
Mr A has been informed that his account has now been sold to a third party and says he 
wasn’t aware of this and has questioned why Creation didn’t contact him. I can see the 
account was sold at the beginning of 2021. However I haven’t seen that Mr A has 
complained directly to Creation or the new owner of the debt about this and given them a 
chance to respond. However we asked Creation about this and it informed us that it would 
expect the new owner of the debt to inform him of the sale – but as it is a separate company 
Creation wouldn’t be able to confirm if this happened.
Finally Mr A has complained about the length of time it took Creation to consider his 
complaint. This isn’t something that falls within my remit to comment on. However I note that 
Creation has offered £100 compensation in recognition of this. Mr A says he hasn’t received 
the letter where that offer was made so he will need to contact Creation directly if he now 
wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
24 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman
