DRN-2709637
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) charged her for speakers 
and a laptop computer that she didn’t receive. She brings this complaint under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also complains about the way she was treated by a 
member of staff at a retailer.
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs S opened a credit account with Creation with a view to buying goods from 
a specific retailer I’ll call “R”. It appears she made an initial purchase of goods costing 
£1,658.95.
In June 2019 further purchases from R were charged to Mrs S’s account. In July 2019 a 
laptop computer purchased online from R was also charged to her account. Mrs S 
complained to Creation. She said she hadn’t ordered speakers which formed part of the 
June purchase, or the laptop computer. 
R was unable to confirm the speakers had left its store. So Creation removed this item from 
Mrs S’s account. However, it said the computer had been delivered to Mrs S’s address and 
signed for there. So it didn’t accept her complaint in relation to the computer, and said she 
would have to raise this with the person who seemed to have signed for it.
Mrs S also complained that her account had been blocked, and had been updated without 
her consent. Creation said the credit limit on the account had been reduced from the original 
£3,500 to £1,600 after the purchase of the computer. It was now blocked because it was in 
arrears. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this response and complained to us. She also complained about 
the way she was treated by a member of R’s staff.
Our investigator said we couldn’t hold Creation responsible for the behaviour of R’s staff as 
this didn’t come within our jurisdiction. She said Creation had already removed the speakers 
from her account.
However, evidence had been provided that the computer was signed for at her address by a 
person named “Rafar”. Mrs S had acknowledged that a person called “Rafal” lived at the 
address, although he denied signing for the computer.
On the balance of probabilities, the investigator thought the difference in spelling was likely 
to have been a mistake by the delivery driver in recording the name of the person who 
signed for the computer. So she couldn’t say Creation had acted unfairly in not removing the 
computer from Mrs S’s account.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:

her credit limit on the account had always been £1,600; and

she didn’t order the computer.
Creation confirmed to the investigator that Mrs S’s credit limit was £3,500 when she opened 
the account, and when the computer was ordered. And she remained satisfied that the 
computer was signed for by someone at her address who on the balance of probabilities was 
“Rafal”.
Mrs S asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said, in summary, 
that:

she didn’t order or receive the computer;

her account had been hacked, and the password on the account changed by 
someone else;

the limit on her account was only ever £1,600; 

Creation had failed to investigate what had happened; and

she should be compensated for the stress Creation had put her under.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same view as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons. I find on the balance of probabilities that the computer was delivered to 
Mrs S’s address and signed for there by someone present on the premises whose name the 
delivery driver recorded as “Rafar”.
Although Mrs S suggests her account was hacked, I’ve seen no evidence to support this. 
While I’ve seen confirmation that the password on the account was changed this doesn’t say 
who made the change.
I accept Creation’s evidence that the opening credit limit on the account was £3,500, and 
this remained the credit limit at the time the computer was ordered. For one thing, the 
opening purchase cost £1,658.95, and this wouldn’t have been possible if the credit limit had 
been only £1,600.
So all in all, I think Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in considering Mrs S’s 
complaint, and in not removing the computer purchase from her account.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman
