DRN-3963201
The complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation provided an 
incorrect early settlement figure for his loan account and didn’t provide an annual loan 
statement in 2022.
What happened
Mr F opened a loan account with Creation in early 2020. In August 2022 Mr F requested a 
settlement figure for the loan and paid the amount Creation quoted. Mr F complained that 
the settlement figure was calculated incorrectly and, that as Creation hadn’t provided a loan 
statement in 2022, some of the interest he paid should be refunded. 
Creation said the loan interest had been added to the loan at the start and that the 
settlement figure had been calculated correctly. Creation said the 2022 annual statement 
had been emailed to the email address it held for Mr F. Creation apologised for the delay in 
dealing with Mr F’s complaint.
Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought there was no evidence to show 
Creation had incorrectly calculated the settlement figure and that Creation had emailed a 
statement to Mr F by email in 2022. Mr F asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F has very strong views that the settlement figure Creation provided for his 
loan was incorrect and that Creation didn’t fulfil its obligation to provide an annual statement 
for his loan account. However, for very much the same reasons as the Investigators I’ve 
decided that Creation acted fairly and reasonably in this case. I will now explain why.
It may be useful if I first explain how early settlement of a loan works. When a loan is taken 
out, the total amount the borrower has to pay back is the amount they’ve borrowed plus the 
cost of borrowing that amount. This is usually the interest and any fees or charges. In this 
case, the interest was added to the amount borrowed at the start of the loan – it wasn’t 
charged daily. Commonly, loans are based on an ‘amortisation’ schedule. What that means 
is that each instalment is made up of some of the amount originally borrowed (also known as 
“capital” or “principal”) and some of the interest and charges. 
The loan repayments may be for a fixed amount. But in the earlier stages of the loan term, 
more of each monthly payment goes on paying the interest – because it’s calculated based 
on the outstanding balance. And that’s going to be higher at the start. As the borrower 
progresses through the loan term, and the remaining balance reduces, more of their 
payment goes on paying off the principal element of that balance. As instalments are paid, 
the capital balance reduces, and so does the amount of interest.
If the borrower repays all or some of a loan early, they may not have to pay the interest they 
would need to pay in the future if the loan ran for its full term. This saving is called a rebate. 
If a rebate is due, the lender will apply a mathematical formula which is set out in The 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 to work out what the rebate should 
be. The regulations are there to protect borrowers to make sure they don’t pay more than 
they need to, especially if they repay a loan very early in its term. The formula works out how 
much of the amount borrowed is left to be repaid and how much of the future interest and 
charges will no longer need to be paid if the loan is settled by the settlement date.
In Mr F’s case, he’s provided evidence of settlement figures he obtained using on-line 
calculation sites. I’ve looked at these, but I note that Mr F hasn’t used the correct number of 
payments he made on his loan at the date of the calculations. Mr F, by agreement with 
Creation, took a payment holiday in 2021. This meant that when he applied for an early 
settlement figure Creation calculated the rebate using the payments Mr F had made to his 
loan account, and not the number of months it had been open. I’m satisfied that Creation 
didn’t do anything wrong in this regard.
Mr F has provided two separate spreadsheets showing how he feels the settlement figure 
should have been calculated. However, both of these calculations show interest being 
applied monthly, which wasn’t how Mr F’s loan worked. In Mr F’s case the interest was 
added at the start, and this is clearly explained in the credit agreement. I think it’s likely this 
is why Mr F has calculated an early settlement figure that is different to the one provided by 
Creation. Mr F has questioned whether Creation can add interest to the loan at the start and 
I’m satisfied it can as long as it offers a rebate on early settlement – which Creation did in 
this case when it rebated £1275.62 of interest.
Mr F says he received an annual statement for his loan account in 2021, but not in 2022. I’ve 
seen evidence that persuades me Creation sent the 2022 statement to an email address it 
held for Mr F. This is still Mr F’s email address and I consider it’s more likely than not Mr F 
would have received this statement, albeit may have gone to a ‘junk’ folder. Mr F goes on to 
say that the annual statement he received didn’t include the statutory information Creation is 
required to provide under the regulations of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, specifically 
section 77B. Mr F believes the annual statement must contain a breakdown of the instalment 
showing how much of it is made up of capital repayment, interest, and other charges. I’ve 
considered Mr F’s comments, but section 77B specifically relates to what a business must 
include if a consumer requests a statement and not what must be included in an annual 
statement of account. So, in this regard, I’m satisfied Creation didn’t do anything wrong as 
there’s no evidence that Mr F requested a statement of account in 2022.
I’ve noted that Creation apologised to Mr F that it delayed in dealing with his complaint when 
it was received. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I cannot consider this part 
of Mr F’s complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr F’s complaint about Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman
