 
 
DRN-4967233 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr B has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
 
Mr B has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr B throughout. 
 
What happened 
In July 2014 Mr B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a £9,250 
solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount payable 
under the agreement was £14,558.40 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly 
repayments of £121.32. The most recent update from Creation in January 2023, is that Mr B 
still owed £2,236.87 although its now likely the loan has been repaid. 
 
In November 2021 Mr B sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining the system had been 
mis-sold to him due to misrepresentation by E. 
 
Mr B said E told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-funding. He 
said E told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy and his 
energy bills and household overheads would go down. 
 
Finally, Mr B said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several 
other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation. 
 
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 to say it wasn’t considering the 
complaint because it had been brought out of time. Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr B 
decided to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in January 2022. 
 
One of our investigators looked into things. Firstly, they considered that the Financial 
Ombudsman had jurisdiction to consider the complaint and they concluded s.140 created an 
unfair relationship that was still ongoing when the complaint was made and so the complaint 
was made within the relevant time limits. They then went on to consider the merits. 
 
The investigator concluded Mr B was likely told the system was self-funding over the course 
of the loan term, and so they thought E had misrepresented it. They thought a court would 
likely find the relationship between Mr B and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a 
loss through entering into the agreement. 
 
In order to put things right, they thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on 
known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mr B pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for 
the impact of Creation not investigating the s.140A claim. 
 
 
 
Mr B accepted the view, but Creation didn’t. In summary, Creation said: 
 
• 
The complaint was brought more than six years after the events complained about, 
so outside the time limits which apply to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman. 
• 
No complaint has been made about the way Creation handled Mr B’s section 75 
(“s.75”) claim, but even if Mr B had made such a claim than the Financial 
Ombudsman would lack jurisdiction to consider it. 
• 
Mr B’s allegations of an unfair relationship don’t relate to any events post-dating the 
sale of the system in July 2014. 
• 
The end of a credit relationship may be the starting point for limitation purposes in 
civil litigation, but it isn’t the starting point for the six-year period under DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a), where the unfair relationship itself would not constitute an event. It is 
the event(s) giving rise to an unfair relationship which are the “events complained of” 
for the purposes of that rule. 
• 
The investigator conflates the jurisdiction rules on the Financial Ombudsman’s time 
limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) and DISP 2.8.2R(1). It 
considers the approach allows any complainant to bring an otherwise time-barred 
claim in time by complaining about the decision not to uphold the complaint. 
• 
Without prejudice to its position on jurisdiction it considers the approach to redress 
should be in accordance with the Court decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
 
As things weren’t resolved, the complaint was passed to me to decide, and I proceeded to 
issue a provisional decision outlining why I was intending to uphold Mr B’s complaint.  
Both parties were asked for any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, 
no later than 15 August 2024. 
 
Mr B, through is representative told us that he accepted the findings as set out in the 
provisional decision. Creation didn’t respond to the provisional decision. 
 
A copy of provisional findings follows this and forms part of this final decision. 
 
What I said in my provisional decision: 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My findings on jurisdiction 
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr B’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Creation argues that the event complained of when the matter is brought to our service 
occurred as and when the supplier caused the alleged s.75 liability to arise in the first place. 
 
I disagree: the lender’s s.75 liability in damages doesn’t arise as a result of any act or 
 
 
omission of the lender in performing a regulated activity – it is simply a claim given by statute 
to the borrower against the lender. And it arises from the acts or omissions of a third party, 
the supplier. Only when and if that claim is presented by the borrower to the lender must the 
lender do anything about it, which is to honour its statutory liability by paying the claim if it is 
a valid one. Until then, the lender’s acts and omissions are simply to have lent money to the 
borrower at the borrower’s request, and that is not the matter complained about. 
 
So, when a borrower brings a complaint to our service alleging that they were due  
money under s.75 which the lender has refused to pay, the “event complained of” in such 
circumstances isn’t the supplier’s conduct; it is the lender’s refusal to honour its alleged 
statutory liability when the borrower made the claim. 
 
In this case, Creation rolled up its consideration of Mr B’s claim into a letter that both 
explained why it would not be paying the claim and treated Mr B as having brought a 
complaint which he was entitled to refer to our service. So, its refusal to accept and pay the 
s.75 claim was contained in a final response letter in November 2021, in which it told 
Mr B he could refer his complaint to our service within 6 months. 
 
In those circumstances, because Creation’s letter dated November 2021 rejected Mr B’s 
claim under s.75 (which Mr B says is valid) it constituted “the event complained of”. It also 
set out Creation’s response to any complaint that flowed from this and invited Mr B to refer 
that complaint to our service if he was dissatisfied with the outcome. Creation could have 
separated those stages, waited for Mr B to complain that the s.75 claim had not been 
accepted and honoured, and only then issued its final response letter. Instead, it followed the 
same practice that many other lenders adopt by allowing Mr B to refer the matter directly to 
the ombudsman service, by way of treating it as a complaint. 
 
Creation argues that Mr B didn’t complain to it about the manner in which it dealt with his 
s.75 claim, and that it has never responded to such a complaint. But that ignores the fact 
that it was Creation’s choice to roll the answer to the s.75 claim into a final response letter in 
the way that I’ve described. That was a reasonable and pragmatic way of proceeding, 
because the issues between the parties on this part of Mr B’s complaint were whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Creation to reject Mr B’s s.75 claim, as they remain to this day. 
 
Creation also refers to DISP 2.8.1R(1) which broadly provides a complaint can only be 
considered if the respondent has sent the complainant its final response (or summary 
resolution communication). However, Creation did send Mr B a final response letter on 
in November 2021. After the complaint was referred by Mr B to the ombudsman service in 
January 2022, we wrote to Creation providing details of the complaint as submitted to the 
ombudsman service including details of Mr B’s complaint about the s.75 claim. 
 
If Creation’s position had been that it denied it received any such complaint, it could have 
raised this with the ombudsman service at the time, but it did not. Instead, it provided 
information concerning its position on the complaint. It was apparent from this 
correspondence that, in relation to s.75, Mr B’s complaint was that Creation had a liability to 
him which it was declining to pay. 
 
So, even if no final response had been issued in respect of the complaint about s.75, in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.1R(2) Creation has had well over eight weeks to respond to the 
complaint and our service is entitled to deal with it. 
 
There has been no conflation with the six-month time limit under DISP 2.8.2R(1) in this 
regard. That Creation refused to accept the s.75 claim within a final response letter does not 
give rise to any difficulties calculating when time begins to run under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a). 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction. 
 
 
 
Mr B is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair 
relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship 
ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. 
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on foot, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship. 
 
In Mr B’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr B unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr B 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman. 
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr B’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr B says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself because he 
was told he would get free electricity in the day and even if Mr B had used all the power 
generated he would also receive money from his energy supplier. I’ve taken account of what 
Mr B says he was told, and I’ve reviewed all the documentation that I’ve been supplied. 
 
The fixed sum loan agreement which has been provided sets out the amount being 
borrowed; the interest charged; the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out clearly enough for Mr B to be able to 
understand what was required to be repaid towards the agreement. 
 
Indeed, we asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, and Mr B was 
able to supply a number of different documents including a handover certificate, warranty 
and a certificate of conformity. But these all seemed to have been provided, after the point of 
sale and after the panels had been installed. 
 
The handover certificate, provided by Mr B does seem to show that after he entered into the 
loan agreement, outside of the 14 day cooling off period and after the panels had been 
installed, he received some paperwork which tried to predict the cost savings to Mr B taking 
account of sun light and the type of system installed. The handover certificate suggests that 
based on E’s own calculations Mr B could perhaps have an annual saving of £727 – and this 
is less than the amount needed in order to make the system cost neutral. 
 
Mr B was asked about this document, and he said he didn’t remember seeing it but he did 
ask the installers about the number of solar panels he had. But I have to consider, that by 
this point, the misrepresentation had already occurred because Mr B had already entered 
into his finance agreement. I’m also not convinced how much attention E had given this 
document and whether it had been brought to Mr B’s attention. 
 
Indeed, given the information on E’s website and the outcome of a number of RECC’s 
investigations – which I come on to below, I think on balance, notwithstanding what the 
document says that Mr B was told the system would be self-funding. 
 
Mr B has said he only agreed to the purchase because E told him the system would pay for 
itself. Mr B also said, that he wasn’t intersting in installing panels and he was told by E that 
his house was in a good position and received around 11 hours of sunlight. Given Mr B’s 
testimony, I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, he 
would have agreed to pay for the system if his monthly outgoings would increase 
significantly. And I think this is supported by the additional information I’ve seen about E’s 
sale practices and what its website showed at the time. 
 
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
 
 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against E. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code. 
The RECC investigated E’s conduct in June 2014, and later in January 2015. The RECC 
determined that E was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not 
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to requiring members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and accurate 
information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr B has 
complained about, at a similar time to when he was sold the system. 
 
Apart from the credit agreement, the other documents provided don’t contain any substantial 
information about the benefits or the usage Mr B may have benefited from, so I can’t be sure 
of the financial benefits that Mr B may have been provided or received. 
 
However, Mr B had provided testimony that suggests that the benefits and costs of the 
system were discussed. So, I’ve looked at a copy of E’s website from November 2013, which 
is the closes date I’m able to view. There is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the 
following is stated – 
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the 
solar PV systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of 
charge and give you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. 
Yes you get paid for generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all 
the savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by E and it’s likely this would have been a 
central part of E’s conversation when selling the product. 
 
So, I find what Mr B has explained happened to be believable, I think E’s website supports 
his testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be 
a key reason to purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from 
the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation. 
 
I think Mr B would have looked to E’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr B’s testimony that he was told by 
E’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
On balance I find Mr B’s account to be plausible and convincing. 
 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £1,455 per year – this is based off the total year payment Mr B would need to pay in 
order to service the credit agreement. 
 
I’ve not seen anything to suggest he’s achieved anywhere near this benefit. I therefore find 
the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t true. 
I think E’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr B’s system would not 
likely have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are 
elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, 
I think E’s representative would have known that Mr B’s system would not produce enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him. 
Overall, I’ve not quite seen enough in the limited documentation I do have to be persuaded 
that Mr B was given enough information to make an informed decision about the savings 
 
 
he’d likely make. 
 
Considering Mr B’s account about what he was told; the documentation; the RECC findings; 
and that Creation hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely E gave Mr B a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system at the point the credit 
agreement was entered into. 
 
Given his lack of prior interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr B’s account of 
what he was told by E credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had E not given the 
reassurances he said he received. 
 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr B expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr B went into the transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr B’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr B in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr B 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr B and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
B a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
E’s assurances. That is, that Mr B’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this doesn’t 
persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. 
 
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even 
if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation 
should be based on Mr B’s expectation of what he would receive. I consider Mr B has lost 
out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to the extent that his 
loan repayments to it exceed the benefits from the solar panels. On that basis, I believe 
my determination results in fair compensation for Mr B. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr B received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr B received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr B 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr B some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
Finally, I note Mr B also mentioned claiming damages through s.75. Given my above 
conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of Mr B’s 
s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that I made in the provisional decision. So, for the reason that I previously gave and set out 
above, I am upholding Mr B’s complaint against Creation.  
 
I’ve set out below what Creation needs to do in order to put things right for Mr B.   
 
Putting things right 
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mr B’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to: 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr B has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the end of the loan term – A 
• 
Use Mr B’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr B should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr B 
• 
Pay Mr B an additional £100 compensation 
 
*Where Mr B has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained above and in the provisional decision, I’m upholding Mr B’s 
complaint. 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right for Mr B as directed above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2024. 
  
 
Robert Walker 
Ombudsman 
 
