DRN-2843731
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly recorded a default on his
credit file and then delayed in removing it, causing him difficulty in re-mortgaging. 
What happened
Mr D took out a finance agreement with Creation for a laptop in June 2013. Mr D fell into
difficulties with his repayments and on 4 December 2013 he entered into an IVA. In
December 2018 Creation defaulted Mr D’s account.
Mr D successfully completed his IVA in December 2019. In March 2020 Mr D discovered
that Creation were still reporting the default on his credit file. Mr D sent the IVA discharge
paperwork to Creation and asked it to remove the default. Creation say that it requested the
credit file amendment on 21 March 2020.
Mr D applied for a mortgage in May 2020 and was advised that it would be declined because
of the default. Mr D secured a mortgage offer from another lender in June 2020.
Our Investigator didn’t think that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that there
was no evidence that Creation was told about the successful completion of the IVA before
21 March 2020 and then it removed the default. There was no evidence that the default
remained on Mr D’s credit file and prevented him from getting a mortgage.
Mr D didn’t agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. I asked for further information from Mr D about the timing of the mortgage 
applications. On the 27 April 2021 I made a provisional decision setting out why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint and asking for further information from both parties.
Mr D thought that £150 wasn’t enough to compensate him for the inconvenience caused and 
he said that he thought he would have been able to get a better mortgage deal but hasn’t 
provided any evidence.
Creation was not able to explain why it began reporting the default, or when, and was unable 
to provide any information about the reason for the default being reported.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any evidence that changes my conclusions I don’t see any 
reason to depart from them.
On the basis of the information I have, it appears that Creation were aware of the
terms of Mr D’s IVA and the default was reported in error. In these circumstances I don’t
agree with the Investigator that Creation did not need to remove it until the discharge papers
were received.
I can see from Mr D’s correspondence with the first lender he approached that he was not
able to proceed with that lender as the application would have been declined and caused
further damage to his credit report. Mr D was eventually able to secure an offer from a
different lender in June 2020.
Mr D hasn’t provided any evidence that would support that he secured a less favourable deal 
with the second lender. Mr D has said that his mortgage payments were £473 and under the 
re-mortgage they are £425. Mr D hasn’t provided any evidence that he would have been 
able to get a better deal than this. So I can’t say that he is out of pocket because of the error.
I think it is likely that the default was removed in around April/ May 2020 and so did not
impact on the second lenders offer. Even so, I think Mr D had considerable delay and trouble 
and upset in trying to put this matter right. 
For the trouble and upset I think that Creation should pay Mr D £150. I know that Mr D 
doesn’t think that this is enough but I don’t agree. The default was removed in a relatively 
short space of time and Mr D was then able to secure a favourable re-mortgage.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay Mr D £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
