DRN-3343973
The complaint
Mr D complains that the mileage of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t correct.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2020. There were some issues with the 
car and Mr D paid a manufacturer’s dealer £198 for a vehicle health check in June 2021. 
The health check identified the required work but also identified that the car’s instrument 
panel had been manipulated and that there was a discrepancy on the car’s mileage. The 
warranty company said that it wouldn’t pay for the required work so Mr D contacted the 
dealer. He also complained to Creation Consumer Finance and then to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the car wasn’t as described because the 
mileage had been tampered with before the car was supplied to Mr D and that, had he been 
aware of the accurate mileage, he wouldn’t have purchased it. He said that the 
misrepresentation may cause problems should Mr D wish to sell the car in the future. He 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should unwind the contract, collect the car 
and return the deposit.
Both Creation Consumer Finance and Mr D have asked for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. Creation Consumer Finance says that the dealer has informed it that 
there appear to have been a number of repairs carried out on the car under warranty and the 
warranty would have been invalidated if the car had a genuine mileage discrepancy. It also 
says that the car passed an MOT test in February 2022 when it’s mileage was recorded as 
43,662 so a full refund is completely unreasonable. It says that both it and the dealer don’t 
agree with the recommended outcome.
Mr D says that he’s done nothing wrong but has paid the deposit and made monthly 
payments of nearly £500 with the intention of keeping the car so returning it means that he’s 
paid over £7,000 for a car that he won’t have. He says that if he returns the car he wants all 
the money that he paid for it back so that he can invest in a new car. He says that he’ll 
accept a similar car of his choice with the same equivalent value.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in 
September 2019 for a used car to be supplied to him – the car was about 18 months 
old, its mileage was shown on the agreement as 16,654 miles and it had a price of 
£22,199;

Mr D made an advance payment of £107 for the car and agreed to make 59 monthly 
payments of £493.59 and a final payment of £494.59 for the car to be supplied to 
him;

there were some issues with the car and Mr D paid a manufacturer’s dealer £198 for 
a vehicle health check in June 2021 - the health check identified the required work 
but also identified that the car’s instrument panel had been manipulated and that 
there was a discrepancy on the car’s mileage; 

it provided a vehicle history which showed the following mileages for the car: 9 miles 
in March 2019, 69,315 miles and then 6,930 miles and 6,934 miles in October 2019, 
71,399 miles in January 2020, and 26,292 miles and 27,075 miles in June 2021;

the manufacturer’s dealer’s invoice says: “Vehicle has had the instrument cluster 
manipulated”;

Mr D said in December 2021 that the car’s mileage was 36,000 miles and the car 
passed an MOT test in February 2022 when it’s mileage was recorded as 43,662 
miles (which was about 27,000 miles more than when the car was supplied to him);

the mileage of 69,315 in October 2019 could be an administrative error as the other 
mileages at the time were 6,930 and 6,934 but I don’t consider that it’s likely that a 
second administrative error would have been made when the car’s mileage was 
recorded as 71,399 in January 2020;

I consider it to be more likely than not that there’s an issue with the car’s mileage and 
that its instrument cluster was manipulated before the car was supplied to Mr D;

I don’t consider that Mr D would have entered into the hire purchase agreement if 
he’d known about the mileage discrepancy and that the instrument cluster had been 
manipulated and I’m not persuaded that those issues can now be adequately 
corrected; 

I don’t consider that any warranty repairs carried out on the car before June 2021 are 
enough to show that the car doesn’t have a mileage discrepancy; and

I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation 
Consumer Finance to allow Mr D to reject the car and to take the other actions 
described below.
Putting things right
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange 
for the car to be collected from Mr D – both at no cost him. The hire purchase agreement 
shows that Mr D paid a deposit of £107 for the car and I find that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund that deposit to him.
Mr D was able to use the car to drive about 27,000 miles between September 2020 (when it 
was supplied to him) and February 2022 (when it passed an MOT test) and the car has 
remained available for him to use since then. I consider that it’s fair and reasonable for him 
to pay for the use that he’s had from the car. He clearly feels that he should receive a refund 
of his monthly payments but I find that it’s fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer 
Finance to keep his monthly payments as payment for the use that he’s had from the car. 
I don’t consider that it would be appropriate for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to 
supply an equivalent replacement car to Mr D or to take any other action (other than as 
described above) in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr D – both at no cost to him.
2.
Refund to Mr D the deposit that he paid for the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
