DRN-3228111
The complaint
Mrs T complains that carpets that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd weren’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs T used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that she 
electronically signed in January 2020 to pay for some carpets. The amount of credit was 
shown on the loan agreement as £1,403.16 but that was adjusted by £90.72 to correspond 
with the price of the carpets, less the deposit paid by Mrs T, as shown on the order form. 
Mrs T agreed to repay the loan by 24 monthly payments of £58.46. 
The carpets were fitted in February 2020 and Mrs T says that stains started appearing on 
the carpet about two weeks later. She contacted the supplier and it arranged for the carpets 
to be inspected in July 2020. Mrs T arranged for the carpets to be inspected by an 
independent expert in October 2020 but the supplier said that there was no manufacturing or 
fitting fault with the carpet. 
Mrs T complained to Creation Consumer Finance but it hasn’t responded to this service’s 
request for information about Mrs T’s complaint and I’ve not seen any final response letter 
that it sent to Mrs T. The carpets were inspected again in April 2021 and the inspection 
report said that the stains were caused due to localised conditions and not manufacturing 
defects. 
Mrs T complained to this service and said that she was moving from the property in 
December 2021. Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She 
didn’t consider that it was plausible that more than 30 stains would have appeared from 
something being spilt on the surface within three months of the carpet being fitted. She said 
that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality and recommended that Creation Consumer 
Finance should: refund to Mrs T the amount that she’d paid for the independent inspection, 
with interest; give Mrs T a 10% price reduction; and refund Mrs T the cost of the professional 
clean she’d had done.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that it doesn’t agree with our investigator’s recommendations and it has 
provided copies of the July 2020 and April 2021 inspection reports and a response from the 
supplier.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the carpets were fitted in February 2020 and Mrs T says that stains started appearing 
on them about two weeks later;

the carpet has been inspected three times: in July 2020, in October 2020 which was 
arranged and paid for by Mrs T, and in April 2021 – all of which have included 
pictures of the carpet showing the stains;

the July 2020 inspection report said that the stains were caused by surface damage;

the October 2020 inspection report said:
“there is no clear evidence to support that the staining is as a result of the 
home environment, the stain are numerous and throughout the customers 
property. The stains are aqueous … the carpet cannot be deemed to be 
acceptable …”;

the April 2021 inspection report said that the stains: “… have been caused due to 
localised conditions and not manufacturing defects”;

the supplier says that the October 2020: “ … does not hold up to scrutiny and has 
been rejected by the manufacturer … It has been deemed a biased report”;

Mrs T arranged and paid for the October 2020 report but that doesn’t mean that it’s 
not independent or is biased – and I consider that it’s appropriate for me to consider 
all three reports equally;

this is a finely balanced complaint and the evidence provided by the inspection 
reports is conflicting; 

Mrs T says that the stains first appeared about two weeks after the carpet was fitted 
and the photos show extensive staining of the carpet – there are more than 30 stains 
on the carpet and they are spread randomly and inconsistently across the carpeted 
area and are of different sizes;

I’m not persuaded that it’s likely that the stains have been caused by something 
being spilled on the carpet and there’s no evidence to show what has caused the 
stains;

I consider it to be more likely than not that the stains have been caused as a result of 
an issue with the carpet which caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mrs T and I agree that the outcome recommended by our 
investigator is a fair and reasonable way for this complaint to be resolved; and

Creation Consumer Finance didn’t respond to this service’s request for information 
about Mrs T’s complaint and didn’t provide any information until after our investigator 
had made her recommendations – which is likely to have delayed her complaint 
being considered and to have caused further distress and inconvenience for Mrs T.
Putting things right
Mrs T has provided an invoice which shows that she paid £175 for the carpet to be inspected 
by an independent expert in October 2020. She’s also provided an invoice which shows that 
she paid £100 for the carpets to be professionally cleaned before she moved from the 
property because of the stains. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation 
Consumer Finance to reimburse her for those costs, with interest.
Mrs T has now moved from the property so I don’t consider it to be appropriate for the carpet 
to be removed or for her to receive a refund of the cost of the carpet. She has benefitted 
from the carpet for the time since it was fitted until she moved from the property but that 
benefit will have been affected by the stains on it. I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs T £138.14 – which is 10% of the cost of the 
carpet as shown on the order form – as compensation for that. 
Although Mrs T is likely to have been caused further distress and inconvenience by Creation 
Consumer Finance’s failure to provide this service with information in response to her 
complaint, I’m not requiring it to pay any compensation to her for that.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs T’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Pay £175 to Mrs T to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
2.
Pay £100 to Mrs T to reimburse her for the cost of cleaning the carpet.
3.
Pay £138.14 to Mrs T to refund her for 10% of the cost of the carpet.
4.
Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mrs T a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
