 
 
DRN-5485828 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has reported adverse information 
to the credit reference agencies about a hire purchase agreement that he voluntarily 
terminated. 
What happened 
A used car was supplied to Mr R under a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance that was dated in October 2021. The price of the car was £19,699 and the total 
amount payable under the agreement was £24,583.60. Mr R says that he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement in November 2023 and the car was collected from him by a third 
party on behalf of Creation Consumer Finance. 
Mr R says that he made a mortgage application in May 2024 but it was rejected due to an 
outstanding finance agreement so he contacted Creation Consumer Finance and was told 
that he owed it £2,177.80 and the agreement hadn’t been terminated. Mr R complained to 
Creation Consumer Finance but it said that Mr R’s payments didn’t yet qualify for the 
voluntary termination option so the difference between the payments made by him up to 
November 2023 and the voluntary termination threshold remained payable. Mr R wasn’t 
satisfied with its response so he complained to this service. 
His complaint was looked at by one of this service’s investigators who, having considered 
everything, didn’t think that Creation Consumer Finance had acted fairly. She didn’t think 
that it had made any reasonable attempts to contact Mr R to inform him of his outstanding 
balance or to discuss an affordable repayment arrangement. She said that she hadn’t seen 
any information to suggest that the outstanding balance of £2,177.80 was incorrect so she 
was unable to ask Creation Consumer Finance to clear that balance; but she recommended 
that it should pay Mr R £100 for any impact or inconvenience caused by the delay in 
informing him of the outstanding balance and the impact to his credit file and remove any 
adverse information from his credit file. 
Creation Consumer Finance says that it agrees with the investigator’s recommendation but 
won’t be able to amend Mr R’s credit file until the arrears of £2,177.80 have been paid. Mr R 
says that he’s still very unclear as to where he stands with Creation Consumer Finance so 
would like an ombudsman to finally clarify his position. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The total amount payable under the hire purchase agreement was £24,583.60 and the 
agreement says:  
“You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person 
you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and 
to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is £12,291.80”.  
 
 
Mr R asked to end the agreement in November 2023 and the third party acting on behalf of 
Creation Consumer Finance sent an e-mail to him which said: 
“Please be advised we have received your confirmation to voluntarily terminate the 
agreement and have actioned the account accordingly. Please be advised, our 
agents will be in contact with yourself shortly in order to confirm a suitable date and 
time for collection. Once the vehicle has been collected and assessed and the final 
liability figure has been calculated, we shall be in contact to set up an affordable 
payment arrangement in light of your circumstances”. 
The car was then collected from Mr R but he received no further communication from 
Creation Consumer Finance or the third party until he contacted Creation Consumer Finance 
in about May 2024. Creation Consumer Finance says that the outstanding balance that Mr R 
owed it in November 2023 was £14,159.60 so he’d paid it less than the £12,291.80 that he 
was required to pay to end the agreement. I’ve seen no evidence to show that Mr R had paid 
at least £12,291.80 to Creation Consumer Finance so the difference between the amount 
that he'd paid it and £12,291.80 remained due to Creation Consumer Finance.  
I consider that Creation Consumer Finance should have written to Mr R about the 
outstanding balance of his account and he would then have been able to decide whether to 
pay that amount to it or to ask it for a repayment arrangement. It’s failure to do so, and the 
adverse information that it has reported to the credit reference agencies, has caused 
distress and inconvenience for Mr R and I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £100 to compensate him for that 
distress and inconvenience. 
Creation Consumer Finance should have written to Mr R in November 2023 and, if it had 
done so, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect that Mr R would have paid the 
outstanding amount before now. Creation Consumer Finance has reported adverse 
information about the hire purchase agreement to the credit reference agencies but I don’t 
consider that the information that it’s recorded to be a true and accurate record of what has 
happened. The investigator recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should remove 
any adverse information from Mr R’s credit file but Creation Consumer Finance says that it 
isn’t able to amend Mr R’s credit file until the arrears of £2,177.80 have been paid.  
I also agree with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer 
Finance to ensure that any adverse information that it’s reported to the credit reference 
agencies about the hire purchase agreement is removed from Mr R’s credit file. The issue 
that Creation Consumer Finance has raised in response to the investigator’s 
recommendation seems to be a systems issue and I don’t consider that to be a valid reason 
for it not being able to ensure that the adverse information is removed from Mr R’s credit file. 
I would expect Creation Consumer Finance to be able to ensure that the adverse information 
is removed from Mr R’s credit file before the payment is made. 
Putting things right 
I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Mr R has paid to Creation 
Consumer Finance at least the amount of £12,291.80 that’s required to end the agreement 
so I find that it’s fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to require Mr R to pay 
to it the difference between the total amount that he’s paid to it and £12,291.80. If Mr R is 
unable to, or chooses not to, pay that amount in one payment, I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement with Mr R for the amount that he owes it. 
These events have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr R and I find that it would be 
 
 
fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £100 to compensate him for 
that distress and inconvenience. 
I find that it would also be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to ensure that 
any adverse information that it’s reported to the credit reference agencies about the hire 
purchase agreement is removed from Mr R’s credit file. 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold Mr R’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to: 
1. Pay £100 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused. 
 
2. Ensure that any adverse information that it’s reported to the credit reference 
agencies about the hire purchase agreement is removed from Mr R’s credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2025.  
 
Jarrod Hastings 
Ombudsman 
 
