DRN-3177985
The complaint
Mr M complains that a sofa he purchased through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the sofa should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation are responsible as there’s been a breach of 
contract. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant law explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to assume 
it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the sofa’s quality. 
But if the fault happens after six months it is for the consumer to demonstrate the fault was 
present or developing, 
Here, the fault was first reported after six months, and I am not persuaded that Mr M has 
been able to demonstrate the fault was present or developing from the beginning. That’s 
because the independent inspector who looked at the sofa in December 2020 didn’t 
conclude the peeling leather was as a result of any manufacturing defect.
So, I won’t be asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
