 
 
DRN-5053329 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Mr U has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from September 2024, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I wasn’t 
planning to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I wasn’t persuaded that Mr U 
was induced into buying the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by 
misrepresentations, so I didn’t find the basis of an unfair relationship between him and 
Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Creation accepted my findings and Mr U has not responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m not upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
 
 
“What happened 
 
In May 2015, Mr U bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) using a 10-year fixed sum loan 
from Creation. He bought it from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount payable under the 
agreement was £17,061.60, and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of 
£142.18. 
 
Mr U complained to Creation, he said that he was told by a salesperson that the system was 
free, but then when he realised he did have to pay, he was told that, “…the government would 
pay for them.” However, he says that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He 
also believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship 
between himself and Creation. 
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr U had brought him 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr U referred him complaint to our service. 
 
An investigator considered Mr U’s complaint. After initially upholding it, he ultimately thought 
that there was a lack of evidence in this case to lead him to uphold the complaint. He 
particularly noted that Mr U appeared to have no documentation from the time of the sale and 
that he hadn’t raised concerns with the installer earlier. 
 
Mr U didn’t accept that. Creation didn’t respond, but had earlier underlined that the event 
complained of occurred in May 2015, and had therefore been brought too late for this service 
 
 
to consider it. It also went on to comment on how things should be put right for Mr U if the 
complaint were upheld. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision. 
Since then, we asked Mr U for some more information about the sale, which he has provided 
in part. Having considered everything, such as there is, I’m currently not planning to uphold 
the complaint, which I will explain in detail. 
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
Having done so, I’m planning to find that this complaint is within my jurisdiction to consider, 
but that the merits of it should not be upheld. 
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr U’s s.75 claim on 
1 December 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr U 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 7 December 2021. So, him 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr U is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship 
with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the 
assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal 
Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. A 
court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, 
including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard 
to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making 
the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in 
Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
 
 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is ongoing, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr U’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr U unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr U 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr U’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be considered 
under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or not 
done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation 
by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and important aspects of a 
transaction. 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations 
and arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when considering 
whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr U. 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, and that I can consider the alleged 
misrepresentations under the unfair relationship complaint, I don’t think I need to provide a 
detailed analysis of Mr U’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a 
fair outcome in the circumstances. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr U has said that he was told by E’s representative that the system was free. Then when he 
realised he would in fact have to pay, he was told that the cost would be covered by the 
government. Mr U says that he became interested and contacted E after seeing an advert on 
social media saying that the solar panels were free. 
 
 
 
Unfortunately, there is no documentary evidence from the sale, other than the credit 
agreement. So I have no paperwork to review to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be free. The loan agreement 
shows that both the total amount payable, and the monthly cost of the loan were clear to Mr 
U.  However, there is no mention on the agreement of the potential benefits of the panels, or 
any government scheme which would make them “free”. 
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, and therefore potentially be considered “free”, 
they would need to produce combined savings and FIT income of a little over £1,700 per 
year. Unfortunately, Mr U has not provided us with any evidence to show that the panels 
haven’t produced that. He says, via his representative, that they haven’t. But whether he has 
even provided enough information to substantiate that he has incurred any loss is debatable. 
 
The testimony he has provided has been brief and lacking in detail. Over several months, 
both via his representative and directly, we have tried to make contact and gain more detail 
and information from Mr U. This has been unsuccessful. 
 
I have been able to access some archived content from what I think is more likely than not to 
be E’s website (based on the installer’s registered address) from around the time of the sale, 
which I think is relevant when considering the likely content and tone of the information it 
would have given Mr U – both verbally and in writing. However, I have found no website 
content which says that the solar panels are free, or that the government will pay for them. 
 
Overall, while I’ve carefully considered what Mr U says he was told, given what I’ve set out 
above, I’m not persuaded there’s sufficient evidence Mr U was misled the system would be 
free, and that is what induced him to enter into the contract in question. Additionally, Mr U’s 
claim that the system hasn’t paid for itself has not been substantiated by him in any way. 
Therefore, I don’t have the grounds to say that Creation’s decision to decline the claim was 
unfair.” 
 
As mentioned above, Creation has accepted my findings and Mr U has not replied at all to 
my provisional decision. Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out 
therein. And so it follows that I don’t uphold this complaint 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd doesn’t need to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
