DRN-3535505
The complaint
Mr F complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has charged interest as he 
hadn’t paid off his balance before a ‘buy now pay later’ (BNPL) promotional period ended.
What happened
Mr F entered into an agreement with Creation in July 2020 to acquire goods from a third-
party supplier. The purchase price was £359 but Mr F took a promotional offer of 12-month 
BNPL. This meant if he paid the balance before the end of the 12-month period he wouldn’t 
pay any interest. But after the 12-month period ended if he hadn’t settled the balance, he’d 
be charged interest until the balance was settled.
Mr F said he’d the money to settle the balance, but Creation failed to tell him when the 
payment needed to be made. As Mr F didn’t pay the balance until August 2021 Creation 
have asked him to pay the accrued interest. Mr F complained to Creation.
Creation said they’d sent statements to Mr F in May and June 2021 and that as he hadn’t 
settled the balance within the agreed 12-month period the interest was payable.
Mr F wasn’t happy with Creation’s response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Creation had acted fairly and reasonably in charging interest as Mr F 
hadn’t settled the BNPL account until after the 12-month period had ended. Mr  F didn’t 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’m not upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see why Mr F is upset as he said he’d set aside the money to settle the BNPL so that 
he didn’t incur any interest charges, and he’d have done this if Creation had said when the 
payment needed to be made. 
While I empathise with the position Mr F finds himself in, for me to say Creation must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that they’ve done something wrong. I can’t see
that they have here which is why I won’t be asking them to do anything else.
Mr F acquired the goods in July 2020, and he said he was aware that he’d 12 months from 
then to settle the balance. But expected Creation to let him know when the payment was 
due. In acquiring the goods, I’ve considered that Mr F would have needed to agree to the 
BNPL terms and conditions when signing the agreement he’d with Creation.
I can see that the BNPL period ended in July 2021, but Mr F didn’t make the payment of 
£359 until August 2021. And as this was after the end of the BNPL period interest would be 
charged until the account was settled. And I can see Creation have asked Mr F to pay the 
accrued interest. In reaching my decision  I need to determine whether Creation did enough 
to notify Mr F of the terms of the BNPL period. And I’m satisfied they did.
Mr F said he’d been sent a payment reminder in January 2021 by Creation, but this had 
been too early for him to make the payment. But I think this would have made Mr F aware 
that a payment needed to be made, and when this would be. Creation said they also sent 
Mr F statements to his online account in May and June 2021 and that these did warn of the 
BNPL period coming to an end. 
Mr F said he couldn’t remember the online account details, he said he’d tried to find the 
details by checking Creation’s website, but without success, so he hadn’t seen any 
statements, which I’ve no reason to doubt. And I also accept Mr F had every intention of 
settling the balance before the end of the BNPL period. 
But I can’t say Creation have done anything wrong as Mr F has confirmed that they told him 
about his BNPL plan in January 2021, and sent statements informing him about his BNPL to 
his online account. And I can’t hold Creation responsible for Mr F not accessing them. 
Overall, I think it’s likely that Creation made Mr F aware that he’d to pay off the full cash
price of his goods within the 12-month period, if he wanted to avoid any interest being
added to his account. As he didn’t make his payment within the BNPL period I don’t think 
Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably by asking Mr F to pay the accrued interest.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman
