DRN-3664282
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him an incorrect amount of 
interest on a TV that he’d purchased on a buy now pay later scheme. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W purchased a TV via a retailer’s website which he financed via a credit 
agreement with Creation. The cost of the TV was £1,699 and the credit agreement came 
with a promotional offer of a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) for a six-month period.  If at the end 
of the six months the TV had not been paid for in full then interest at the rate of 24.9% APR 
would be applied from the date of purchase on any amount outstanding and a direct debit 
would be set up for monthly payments. If no payments were made during the BNPL then the 
cost was spread over 24 monthly payments of £98.91 making a total amount of £2,373.84 to 
be paid for the TV.
Mr W didn’t make any payments towards the TV during the six-month period. In July 2021 
when the BNPL period ended, interest was added from January 2021 (the date of purchase) 
in the amount of £199.78. This increased the cost of the TV to £1,898.78. Mr W did not make 
a payment that month and a monthly direct debit was set up for £98.91 from August 2021.
In August 2021 the first direct debit was paid and further interest for that month was added in 
the amount of £35.51. The balance on the TV was now £1835.38. Mr W paid the TV off in 
full, but a further direct debit was taken in September 2021. Mr W complained to Creation 
about this payment and it was reimbursed to his bank account.
Mr W was concerned about the payment he’d made for the TV, he said he didn’t think he 
should have paid as much interest as he had. He said he had only been around one month 
late in paying the full balance following the end of the BNPL period.
Creation didn’t uphold his complaint. It said that interest had been added from July 2021 
when the BNPL period had ended and that the correct processes had been applied. It 
confirmed that the direct debit taken in September 2021 had been after the TV had been 
paid for and that this amount had subsequently been reimbursed.
Mr W was unhappy at Creation’s response and complained to this service. He said he 
believed he had been overcharged interest on the TV. Our investigator didn’t recommend 
that his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that the agreement stated: “If at any time you make Buy Now Pay Later 
transactions no interest will be charged on any payment made during the Buy Now Pay Later 
period. If you pay the full amount due under that Buy Now Pay Later transaction before the 
end of the Buy Now Pay Later period, no interest will be payable. If you do not repay the 
full amount during the Buy Now Pay Later period interest will be charged at the rate 
shown in your credit agreement from the date of the Buy Now Pay later transaction on 
any amount not paid and you will have to make monthly payments”. And as Mr W 
hadn’t settled the cost of the TV in the BNPL period, Creation had been entitled to add 
interest from the point of purchase. 
Our investigator said she didn’t think Creation had made any error in the amount of interest it 
had added to the cost of the TV.
Mr W disagreed with the view of our investigator as he said the figures in his credit account 
statements didn’t add up correctly. He said he was concerned about the rollover interest that 
was added to his account in July 2021 as this, together with the other interest that had been 
added, would mean the TV would have cost around £2,600 at the end of the 24 month 
period and not the £2373.84 figure that had been quoted in his credit agreement. Mr W was 
also concerned about the direct debit amount having been added to his balance as shown 
by his October 2021 account statement as opposed to it being reimbursed. 
As Mr W didn’t agree with our investigator’s view the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision I have looked at the various statements Mr W has provided for his 
credit account with Creation together with the credit agreement. Having done so, I’m not 
upholding Mr W’s complaint and I will explain why.
Mr W purchased a TV in January 2021 via a credit agreement with Creation. The TV’s 
purchase price was £1,699 and Mr W had until July to pay for it in full if he didn’t wish to pay 
interest on that amount. I’ve seen that it was Mr W’s original intention to pay the full amount 
before the BNPL term ended but for an unknown reason didn’t do so.
Looking at the wording of the agreement for the credit I think it’s clear that interest will be 
added from the date of purchase, here that’s January 2021 if the full balance for the TV isn’t 
paid. This means that when the BNPL term ended in July 2021 six months’ worth of interest 
was added to Mr W’s account. This is the rollover interest figure of £199.75 shown on Mr 
W’s July account statement. This amount was also added to the cost of the TV on that same 
statement which is why the balance for that item is shown as £1,898.78. I’m satisfied this 
amount was only added once to Mr W’s credit account. This rollover interest is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the BNPL scheme.
I also think that looking at the figures that have been provided on the credit agreement that 
interest on the TV would be a little over £30pm. So, I’m satisfied that £199.75 figure is 
correct for six months’ worth of interest. 
In August 2021 a direct debit payment of £98.91 was taken from Mr W’s bank account and 
paid towards the outstanding balance of the TV. In addition, interest was added as per the 
credit agreement of £35.51 for the preceding month. The balance therefore owing for the TV 
was now £1,835.38. 
In September a further month’s interest of £32.11 was added to the amount outstanding for 
the TV. Mr W paid the full amount outstanding of £1,867.49 and the balance for that item 
was marked as closed. However, as Mr W had made his payment close to the due date for 
the direct debit of £98.91, this amount was still taken from his account. 
Creation says that following a conversation with Mr W, it agreed this direct debit should be 
reimbursed and it arranged for this payment to be returned to Mr W’s bank. This means that 
the direct debit wasn’t credited back to Mr W’s credit account but would have been returned 
to his bank account by his bank. The amount of £98.81 therefore needed to be cancelled 
from Mr W’s credit account balance.
I’ve seen that on Mr W’s October 2021 credit account statement that the direct debit is noted 
as being returned as an overpayment. I accept that £98.91 was added to the previous 
balance as the closing balance on that statement has increased by that exact amount. But 
while I can understand why this has confused Mr W, by taking this action Creation has 
actually simply cancelled out what would have otherwise shown incorrectly as a credit on his 
account since that sum had been repaid. This is because the balance brought forward figure 
has the £98.91 amount deducted from it and needs to have that amount readded to reach 
the correct outstanding balance on this credit account.
This is confirmed by checking the balance that is now shown against the four items shown 
that Mr W has also purchased on credit using this account which all have BNPL applicable 
periods. The total cost of those four items equals the amount shown as the new outstanding 
balance. I’m therefore satisfied that Mr W wasn’t charged an additional £98.91 and this 
amount has been reimbursed. The direct debit repayment has been shown as a debit to 
correct the outstanding balance on the account from the previous statement because the 
amount was paid back to his bank account.
For the reasons set out above, I’m therefore for satisfied that Creation has not made an error 
in the interest it has charged Mr W for the TV and the interest that was added was in 
accordance with the agreement’s terms and conditions. I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I’m not upholding Mr W’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
