 
 
DRN-4960654 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In June 2014, Mr C bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “P” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of credit 
is £8,899, the 120 monthly payments are £116.78 and the total amount payable is 
£17,512.80. 
 
Mr C sent a letter of claim to Creation on 1 December 2021, explaining he thought the 
system was mis-sold. In summary he said: 
 
• 
He was told by P that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from 
the system would cover the cost of the loan repayments  
• 
P said he had guaranteed income for 20 years 
• 
He would earn 10% per annum tax free 
• 
His property value would increase  
• 
The system was maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy 
 
Mr C also said that there had been breaches under the CCA and Financial Conduct 
Authority (‘FCA’) rules, and the relationship between Creation and himself was unfair under 
s.140A because either Creation or P: 
 
• 
Failed to undertake a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment 
• 
Failed to supply pre contractual information, and where information was provided, he 
wasn’t given any time to consider it 
• 
Failed to provide Mr C with a cancellation notice 
• 
Conducted a high-pressure sale 
• 
Didn’t explain the full details of the credit agreement 
• 
Didn’t disclose payment of any commission made and/or received  
 
Creation responded to the claim on 8 December 2021 in its final response. It considered Mr 
C had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’).  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service on 22 
February 2022. 
 
An investigator considered Mr C’s complaint, she thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
 
 
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr C and 
Creation.  
She recommended that Mr C keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr C had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. And that Creation should pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused by not 
originally looking into the s.140A complaint.  
 
Mr C accepted the assessment. Creation did not respond. So, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr C’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr C’s s.75 claim 
on 8 February 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr 
C brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2022, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘S.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr C has said he was told by P’s representative that the monthly payments and savings he 
would receive would cover his monthly finance payments. Mr C told us that he’d not 
considered purchasing solar panels before P approached him, and I haven’t seen any other 
evidence Mr C had any prior interest in purchasing them.  
 
Mr C has said he remembers being given documentation from P. I’ve looked at the 
documents Mr C has been able to provide to see if there was anything contained within them 
that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mr C’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other 
things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the 
term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. So, I’m satisfied the loan 
was taken in Mr C’s name to solely purchase the system sold by P. 
 
But neither the loan agreement, the quotation form, the invoice nor the MCS Certificate 
contain any mention of the income or savings that may be generated. So, at the time the 
loan was agreed to, there was no way for Mr C to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised from those documents. Given this, Mr 
C would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the panels 
would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system in 
order for him to make a decision. 
 
The Handover Certificate has some information of that nature but was dated after the 
installation. So, it’s difficult to see how Mr C could have been expected to use that when 
making his decision.  
 
Mr C has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at P’s website from around 
the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 11 October 2013. I 
am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when considering what’s more 
likely than not to have been said to Mr C. On the main page it states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mr C’s 
testimony that P’s representative told him the monthly payments and savings he would 
receive would cover his monthly finance payments.  
 
So, I find what Mr C’s said believable, I think P’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mr C would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr C’s testimony that he was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the renewable energy 
consumer Code and makes sure that its members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
 
So, the Panel decided P was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr C has 
complained about, at a similar time he was sold his system. 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision:  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
 
 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [P’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Creation have also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 
available on companies house. The report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it 
had serious concerns about the way P was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mr C’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr C’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr C left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of £116.78, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial 
burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of what he was told by P, credible and persuasive.  
 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,401.36 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr C’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mr C’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by P were not true. I think P’s representative must reasonably 
have been aware that Mr C’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think P’s representative would have known that Mr C’s system would not produce 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to 
Mr C. 
 
Considering Mr C’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, P’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the 
fact it hasn’t disputed these facts, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation 
to the contrary, I think it likely P gave Mr C a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr C’s account to be plausible 
and convincing. 
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr C’s s.75 complaint and his other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t 
stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
P’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr C 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr C told us he had never received FIT 
payments. So, Creation will need to use that information in its calculation of fair 
compensation.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr C’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr C some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr C £100. 
 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr C has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr C 
• 
Pay Mr C £100 for trouble and upset caused 
 
 
 
*Where Mr C has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before date. 
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
