 
 
DRN-5211293 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) did not mark his account as 
defaulted. 
What happened 
Mr R had a debt with Creation (and other lenders). He entered a Scottish Debt Arrangement 
Scheme (DAS) in January 2020. The debt due to Creation was £1,376.54. This was due to 
be paid in 72 instalments. Interest was stopped. 
 
The DAS was completed in June 2022. By then, the balance had reduced to £1,164.53. And 
Creation accepted a final payment of £527.25 and agreed to write off the balance of 
£637.28. 
 
 During the period of the DAS, Creation marked Mr R’s credit file with late payments. When 
the final payment was made, Creation marked his credit file as ‘partially settled’.  
 
Mr R complained. He said that the marking of his credit file with late payments was unfair – 
as it meant that his credit record would be affected for another six years from June 2022. He 
says his credit file should’ve been marked as ‘default’ when he entered the DAS in January 
2020. He says this would be in line with the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) 
guidance stating  that: “Where an arrangement to pay breaks down, a default may be filed 
when the total value of the arrears is equivalent to three monthly payments under the original 
terms. However, this should not result in the customer being placed in a worse position than 
someone who had made no effort to pay whatsoever.” 
 
Mr R says his other lenders marked his credit file with a default and Creation should do the 
same. He says that the DAS is the same as bankruptcy or an IVA – which would lead to a 
default being marked. He said he has been disadvantaged by trying to deal with his creditors 
rather than stopping the payments and defaulting. 
 
Creation didn’t uphold Mr R’s complaint and said his credit file had not been marked as 
default-  but agreed that it should be marked as in ‘arrangement’; and then ‘settled’ in June 
2022.  
 
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didn’t uphold it. He looked at the ICO’s 
guidance called ‘Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at 
Credit Reference Agencies’. He was satisfied that what Creation had done was in line with 
that. 
 
Mr R didn’t agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
I hear what Mr R has argued and I appreciate the points he has put to us – and I have 
thought a lot about his complaint.  
In general terms, lenders must advise true, and accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs).  And in the ICO’s guidance, it says that a default should normally be 
marked if the account is subject to an arrangement and the terms of that arrangement had 
broken down.  
The crux of this decision therefore comes down to whether the DAS should have been 
considered an ‘arrangement to pay’ or a default. And on balance, I think it is reasonable to 
have considered it as an arrangement to pay.  
I looked at the terms of the DAS scheme sent to Creation in January 2020 – when Mr R 
entered the DAS. The letter says – a ‘Debt Payment Programme’ (DPP) was approved for 
Mr R and it says: 
“DAS helps people with debts to pay most of what they owe to their creditors over an agreed 
period of time. 
No further interest or charges can be added to the debt whilst the DPP continues and they 
are written off on completion of the DPP …. the debtor must make their first payment within 
42 days of the date the DPP is approved. After that they must make all of their payments on 
the date agreed with the Payments Distributor…” 
It goes on: “There are a number of grounds where the debtor, a money adviser acting on 
behalf of the debtor or you as a creditor in the DPP can apply to revoke a DPP. The DAS 
Administrator can initiate the action without an application. 
These grounds include where: 
- 
the debtor failed to satisfy the conditions of the DPP. 
- 
the debtor missed the equivalent of payments due over a 2 monthly period and a 
further payment is due…” 
In other words, DAS is an agreed arrangement to pay off creditors (i.e. lenders). I don’t think 
it is reasonable to regard it as the same as bankruptcy, for example. Indeed, there is 
reference in the letter - to one way that the DPP can fail is if a debtor enters bankruptcy – so 
bankruptcy is a further step from a DAS/DPP.  
I also noted that DAS is a ‘debt arrangement scheme’ and DPP is a ‘debt payment 
programme’ – in other words, an arrangement to make regular payments to pay off a debt. 
I looked at the further information on filing defaults with the CRAs - found in the ‘Principles 
for the reporting of arrears, arrangements and defaults at credit reference agencies.’  
The principles in this document have been drawn up by the credit industry in collaboration 
with the ICO. 
In this, it refers to a Debt Management Programme. This is common in the UK. The 
document says:  “A debt management programme (DMP) is when a third party debt adviser 
negotiates a repayment schedule for all or a number of a consumer’s credit agreements. If 
the plan is accepted by the lender, the record filed at the credit reference agencies must 
reflect that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears may continue to be 
calculated in accordance with the contracted terms, but the account marked as under a 
 
 
DMP.” 
I consider the DAS/DPP to be close to a DMP – where the ICO guidance is to mark the 
credit file with ‘DMP’ i.e. an ‘arrangement to pay’. 
The guidance goes on: If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the 
revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship 
has broken down. 
So – if the payments under the DPP aren’t maintained, then a default may be the next step. 
In other words, if Mr R had not made the agreed payments to Creation under the DAS, then 
Creation could’ve then defaulted his account and marked a default on his credit file. That 
would have been consistent with the guidance to reflect true and accurate information. 
The guidance also says: In normal circumstances lenders will be notified when the debt that 
is owed to them is to be included in an insolvency e.g. bankruptcy, IVA or similar and should 
be marked as included in that by filing a default as soon as is practical. 
So- the guidance says a default only applies in the case of bankruptcy or an IVA or similar – 
and I don’t regard the DAS as ‘similar’ for the reasons I’ve set out. 
Creation agreed to change the marks on Mr R’s credit file to ‘arrangement’ – which I think 
fairly and reasonably describes the circumstances he was in – he was in a scheme of 
arrangement to pay his debts. He wasn’t in an enforcement or recovery process - as in 
bankruptcy or under a County Court Judgment for example. 
Mr R has said (and evidenced) that some other lenders defaulted his accounts. But I can’t 
comment on what they did – I have only considered what Creation did. 
As I said, I appreciate the points Mr R has made and have considered his complaint fully. 
But, on balance, I think Creation’s treatment of Mr R’s credit file was reasonable and I’m not 
asking the firm to do any more here. 
My final decision 
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2025. 
  
 
Martin Lord 
Ombudsman 
 
