DRN-3344597
The complaint
Mr H complains about the redress Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has provided 
since they agreed to allow him to reject a car he had been financing through an agreement 
with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In their final response to Mr H Creation accepted that the car hadn’t been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied and agreed to close his finance agreement and refund all payments 
less a deduction for the mileage Mr H had completed. They also explained that they would 
reimburse the £350.24 Mr H had paid to for a diagnostic and to have the wheels realigned.
Creation haven’t provided any further evidence about what was reimbursed but Mr H has 
explained that they subsequently made a deduction of £583.05 for fair usage when returning 
his finance payments and that they only refunded £1,826 of his £2,500 deposit. Mr H says 
they haven’t provided a refund of the road tax and car insurance he was paying whilst the 
car was off the road and that they’ve not refunded other consequential costs amounting to 
£895.96, incurred investigating the fault and attempting to repair it when discussing the 
matter with the dealership.
In a case like this our service would usually tell the business to end the finance agreement, 
refund the deposit, refund any finance instalments that have been paid less a deduction for 
the usage the consumer has had, and refund any consequential costs along with a 
compensatory payment for any distress and inconvenience caused. I don’t think the redress 
provided by Creation has done that, so I’ve considered how to put things right for Mr H.
 
Putting things right
Creation should end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H, if they 
haven’t already done so.
They should refund the deposit of £2,500 that Mr H paid, and they should add interest to that 
refund as Mr H has been deprived of that money.
Mr H says he only drove the car for 899 miles and as the fault has been confirmed as 
relating to pre-existing accident damage it’s clear he will have been having problems with it 
from the beginning of the agreement. I think it would be fair for Creation to withhold one 
monthly finance instalment in respect of fair usage. So, they can keep £362.98 of the finance 
instalments Mr H has paid but must return anything paid in excess of that, adding interest to 
the refund.
Mr H’s finance agreement asked him to keep the car insured and taxed and he therefore 
incurred costs to do so whilst the car was off the road and before Creation approved 
rejection of the vehicle. So, Creation should provide a pro-rata refund of Mr H’s road tax and 
car insurance for the period from November 2020 until May 2021, inclusive. Mr H has 
provided evidence of those costs that add up to £836.16. Interest will need to be added to 
any refund.
Mr H has also evidenced costs of £895.96 that he paid to have the fault diagnosed and 
repaired and as those costs were incurred as a consequence of the car being supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition, I think Creation should refund them, with interest. They’ve already 
refunded £350.24 of those costs.
It’s clear that Mr H has been inconvenienced by these issues. He’s had to take the car for 
repairs and diagnostic checks, and he’s had to escalate his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I would agree with our 
investigator that Creation should pay Mr H £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he’s experienced.
Creation can deduct from this settlement anything they’ve already paid/refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H, unless they’ve 
already done so.

Refund the deposit of £2,500 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund all finance instalments that Mr H paid less £362.98 for fair usage. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.

Provide a pro-rata refund of car insurance and road tax for the period Mr H was 
unable to drive his car but had to keep it covered. That amount is £836.16. Creation 
should add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the 
date of their final response accepting rejection.

Refund £895.96 of consequential costs relating to diagnostics and repairs paid for by 
Mr H. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.

Pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s 
experienced.

Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr H’s credit file in 
relation to this issue.

Creation can deduct from this settlement anything they’ve already paid/refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
