 
 
DRN-5405075 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr K complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd have reported a default against his account 
unfairly. He’s also unhappy they refuse to tell him how the balance they say he owes has 
accrued. 
What happened 
I issued a provisional decision setting out what’d happened, and what I thought about that. 
I’ve copied the relevant elements of this below, and they form part of this final decision.  
 
Mr K has explained after purchasing some items on finance using Creation, he started to 
experience some financial difficulties in 2022. Mr K kept in touch with Creation, and in 2023 
when he was in a better place financially he looked to pay the balance off, but says Creation 
had inflated what he owed them. He requested a statement of how the balance had accrued, 
but says Creation kept quoting different figures to him. Mr K is also unhappy Creation have 
defaulted the account and marked it as such on his credit file which he says is illegal. And he 
thinks it’s unfair Creation have since sold his account to a debt purchaser. 
Creation said on 7 June 2023 Mr K’s account was manually entered into their collection 
system. On the call of the same day, Mr K told them he couldn’t pay what he owed, but will 
call on 12 June 2023 to pay. On that day, Mr K called and couldn’t make payment as he was 
applying for a new job. An arrangement to clear the arrears was made on 20 June 2023, but 
the arrears weren’t paid. A £50 compensation payment was used to reduce the arrears on 
13 June 2023 following a complaint. But, during the rest of 2023, Creation said Mr K made 
multiple agreements which he didn’t keep to. Because of this, a default notice was sent to on 
31 December 2023, and the default was ultimately registered on 30 January 2024. 
Creation said in early 2024, Mr K started asking for a breakdown of the arrears – and on 
11 March 2024 he asked for statements which they sent him. As no payments were made to 
the account, Creation said they decided to transfer his account to a debt purchaser – which 
was within their right to do so. Overall, they didn’t think they’d done anything wrong.  
Unhappy with all of this, Mr K asked us to look into things. In his correspondence, he 
explained he thought he owed £93.15, but Creation said it was £278.05 or £566.10 (balance 
of £278.05 plus penalty fees of the same).   
One of our Investigators considered things, and ultimately didn’t uphold Mr K’s complaint. He 
felt Creation had treated Mr K fairly.  
Mr K disagreed, in summary he said: 
• 
There were no broken agreements – only conflicting sums mentioned when he tried 
to close his account. 
• 
He asks how much he’s paid so far, and how much he needs to pay to cover 
everything – and every time he asked Creation for this they never gave it to him 
 
 
• 
The only statements he ever received were his monthly statements, not the whole 
breakdown he wanted- he found them misleading and confusing, and said a 
statement produced 19 December 2024 had parts of it that were clearly fabricated 
• 
He doesn’t want the £50 compensation 
 
Our Investigator asked Creation about the £50, but they said as the account has been sold 
on, they can’t take the £50 back. Ultimately, as Mr K didn’t accept our Investigators outcome, 
the complaint’s been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think it’s helpful to explain that, as a starting point, I’ll be considering the terms and 
conditions of the agreement Mr K took out with Creation. If I think he’s met the terms of the 
agreement, then I may uphold the case. If I don’t think Mr K has met the terms of the 
agreement, then I may not uphold the complaint. I’ll also consider, if I think Mr K hasn’t met 
the terms of the agreement, whether I think it’s fair for Creation to then take the action they 
have. 
The agreement Mr K took out was a revolving credit facility. He could essentially buy items 
at a specific shop, and they’d be placed on an account. This account had a limit of £1,500, 
and an interest rate on purchases of 24.9%.  
In this case, there are three issues to address – whether Creation have acted fairly in asking 
Mr K to pay what they’ve said he owes, the default, and the sale of the agreement to the 
debt purchaser. 
Have Creation acted fairly in asking Mr K to repay the amount they’ve said? 
The agreement Mr K signed says, amongst other things: 
• 
Creation will send Mr K statements each month telling him what he needs to pay and 
by when 
• 
Fees can be charged - £30 each time a payment is missed or a Direct Debit is 
cancelled or returned, default interest from the due date of the payment to the date of 
actual payment and any other charges they reasonably incur.  
Creation have provided evidence to show the purchases Mr K made are: 
• 
£429 on 26 June 2022 
• 
£264.98 also on 26 June 2022 
• 
£243.50 on 12 July 2022 
 
This comes to £937.48 – a 50 pence difference from what Mr K said – seemingly due to him 
not including the 50 pence on the last transaction. I’ve verified from Mr K’s statements the 
above purchase figures are correct. I’m satisfied the amount is close enough both parties 
agree on the amount owed for the purchases. So, the starting balance is correct. 
I’ve next looked at Mr K’s stated payments to Creation, but used the dates Creation have on 
their systems as payments received (I’ve included returned payments to give a complete 
history): 
• 
26 July 2022 - £65.09 payment (returned) – actual payment £0 
• 
4 August 2022 - £65.09 payment (returned) – actual payment £0 
 
 
• 
22 August 2022 - £65.09 payment (not returned) – actual payment £65.09 
• 
22 August 2022 - £40.24 payment (not returned) – actual payment £40.24 
• 
8 September 2022 - £60 payment (not returned) – actual payment £60 
• 
11 December 2022 - £227.44 payment (not returned) – actual payment £227.44 
• 
11 December 2022 - £3.60 payment (not returned) – actual payment £3.60 
• 
27 January 2023 - £10 payment (not returned) – actual payment £10 
• 
10 February 2023 - £176.54 payment (not returned) – actual payment £176.54 
• 
10 February 2023 - £2.65 payment (not returned) – actual payment £2.65 
• 
17 March 2023 – £90.61 payment (not returned) – actual payment £90.61 
• 
17 March 2023 - £1.69 payment (not returned) – actual payment £1.69 
• 
8 April 2023 - £90.61 payment (returned) – actual payment £90.61 
• 
26 May 2023 - £91.54 payment (not returned) – actual payment £91.54 
 
I’m aware Mr K has talked about Creation using different payment dates from what show in 
his bank account statements. While Mr K has never shown us these, the reason for the 
difference is likely because when he makes a payment over the phone or online it’ll take a bit 
of time to be transferred from his bank to Creation – so, it’s quite common for there to be a 
difference of a few days between making the payment and it showing on the account. 
Adding up Mr K’s successful payments, they come to £903.57 worth of payments to the 
account – this figure increases to £953.57 once you add the £50 Creation credited to it. Mr K 
has included a payment of £230.64 he says was made on 10 November 2022 – but this isn’t 
showing anywhere on Creation’s systems. So, overall I’m satisfied this figure is likely correct. 
If Mr K wants to provide additional information, such as his bank statement to prove he made 
the payment of £230.64, then I’d be happy to consider it. I’d need to be satisfied the payment 
was made to Creation, for this account, when he said, and wasn’t returned at any point later 
on.  
The next issue to look at, is what’s been added to the balance. In brief, there have been 
three £30 charges, and interest applied to the balance.  
Looking at the three £30 charges these were applied on: 
• 
12 September 2022 – refunded on 4 October 2022 
• 
28 November 2022 – applied due to sending out a letter 
• 
11 January 2023 – applied due to sending out a letter 
 
And an amount for interest which is set out on every statement where it applies. Mr K’s 
calculations don’t allow for charges or interest to be applied – and as I’ve mentioned above 
he’s talked about a payment which I can’t find a trace of. I’ve seen nothing to suggest the 
two £30 charges are wrong, nor that the interest has been calculated incorrectly.  
Taking all of this into account, I think Creation have acted fairly and I’ve found no reason 
why Mr K would owe the lesser amount he says. Creation have applied fees and interest, 
and one payment he says was made seemingly hasn’t been.   
So, at face value, I’d say Creation have treated Mr K fairly. But, I am aware Creation 
defaulted Mr K’s account from 30 January 2024. Despite this, there are interest charges 
showing as being applied after that date. 
The charges were applied on: 
• 
8 February 2024 - £5.01 
 
 
• 
8 March 2024 - £5.11 
• 
8 April 2024 - £5.20 
 
Generally, interest charges shouldn’t be applied once an account has been defaulted. 
Because of that, I think Creation should refund Mr K any interest applied to the account from 
the date the account was defaulted – 30 January 2024.  
Mr K should be aware this calculation, if Creation do it fully, will mean he gets the March and 
April payments back in full. But the February 2024 interest calculation will have included a 
period up to 29 January 2024 where it was fair for Creation to charge interest. Alternatively, 
if Creation would prefer, they can simply refund all three interest charges at £15.32 – as I 
appreciate working out what proportion of interest Mr K is due is likely to be time consuming. 
Generally I’d require Creation to apply this refund to the account balance – as it’s interest 
he’s not paid. But Creation have told us they can’t adjust the balance, so I’ll require them to 
pay this direct to Mr K instead.  
Outside of the default interest issue I’ve mentioned above, I’ve found nothing to suggest 
Creation have made errors in the amount they say Mr K owes. With that in mind, I can’t 
reasonably require them to reduce the balance.  
Have Creation fairly applied the default 
The terms of Mr K’s account require him to make payments when the statements say he 
needs to. The terms don’t allow Mr K to not make payments even if he disputes the balance. 
So, although I understand Mr K genuinely believed he was right in saying the balance was 
wrong, he still needed to make his minimum payments. The terms of his agreement say if he 
doesn’t do this, then Creation may report information to the credit reference agencies.  
As listed above, Mr K’s last payment was 26 May 2023. 
Mr K’s June statement said he was in arrears by £42.60 and the payment needed to be 
made immediately. Each subsequent statement sent to Mr K, including the January 2024 
one, says the same thing about him being in arrears. 
I’m aware Mr K has said he wasn’t receiving the statements and had difficulties accessing 
them – but that doesn’t mean the payment isn’t due – especially given I’ve found Creation 
have done nothing wrong in asking him to repay what they have. Mr K also told Creation at 
one point he could see statements, but he found them confusing.  
In response to our Investigators outcome, Mr K has said he never received a full summary of 
the payments he’d made versus what he owed. But, I don’t think this was a requirement for 
Creation to have sent to Mr K for him to make his payments. He was receiving monthly 
statements which, in my opinion, are clear about what he needs to pay and by when. 
I can also see Creation tried to help Mr K, by setting up multiple payment arrangements and 
writing out to him to confirm those. But, as Mr K didn’t make the payments he needed to as 
part of the agreement, they lapsed.  
Creation also sent Mr K letters confirming how to avoid the default – and as no payment was 
made, the account was defaulted on 30 January 2024. 
In all of the circumstances I’ve described above, I can’t reasonably say Creation have done 
anything wrong. Each month they told Mr K what he owed. I understand there may have 
been some confusion when he was asking on the phone what he owed – but this was 
always set out in his statements in a clear way. So, I can’t see that Creation’s actions have 
 
 
led to any non-payment – as such I’m satisfied Creation have treated Mr K fairly, and don’t 
require them to remove the default.  
The sale of the agreement to the debt purchaser 
The terms of Mr K’s account allow them to transfer the rights and ownership of the account 
to another party.  
Mr K says Creation shouldn’t have done this while the balance was in dispute and a 
complaint was registered with our service. 
While I understand Mr K strongly disagrees with this, Creation are allowed to sell on the 
account. Given I’ve found they’ve not done anything wrong in terms of telling Mr K what the 
outstanding balance is, and reporting a default to the credit reference agencies, I can’t say 
they’ve acted unfairly by selling his account.  
Summary 
While I understand Mr K is going to feel very disappointed with the outcome I’ve reached, I’m 
satisfied for all the reasons I’ve mentioned above it’s a fair outcome. 
In summary, I’m currently planning to require Creation to refund interest charged to Mr K 
from 30 January 2024. Creation can complete a calculation to identify this figure specifically, 
or simply refund £15.32 which covers all of the interest charged after the account was 
defaulted and a bit more.  
Otherwise, I’ve not found enough evidence to suggest Mr K’s calculations are accurate in 
terms of the outstanding balance, that the default has been applied incorrectly or that 
Creation shouldn’t have sold on his account.  
Responses to my provisional decision 
 
Creation replied, confirmed they accepted my provisional decision, and would pay Mr K 
£15.32 of interest – which covers the amount of interest that shouldn’t have been charged, 
plus a bit more.  
Mr K didn’t accept the outcome I’d reached. In summary he said: 
• 
The payment he was referring to is the payment of £227.44 made on 
11 December 2022 – Mr K says this wasn’t referred to in a payment breakdown 
Creation gave him in 2024. 
• 
Creation is making spurious and false claims of multiple failed payments. Mr K says 
we need to retrieve calls from his mobile network or review all the dates he called 
Creation as set out in his letters. 
• 
Mr K rejected the £50 award by Creation the same day, and similarly isn’t interested 
in the £15 I’ve recommended. Mr K says the interest Creation have applied to his 
account should be cancelled, as he’s read through Creation’s terms and can’t find 
any justification for them.  
• 
He clarified he never found Creation’s statements confusing, but they were clearly 
misleading. Especially the most recent 52 page document which doesn’t explain how 
he owes £283. 
• 
My outcome doesn’t explain how he owes £283 – if Creation give him a clear and 
simple explanation of how he owes this money then he’ll pay it.  
• 
Finally, he asks that Creation is sanctioned for defaulting his account without first 
telling him the sum he owes. 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ll address each of Mr K’s points in turn. 
 
The payment of £227.44 is included on the statement dated 8 January 2023 which was sent 
to Mr K. I can’t immediately track the payment breakdown Mr K has referred to – so I’ve 
thought about what I’d decide if I saw it, and it didn’t include this payment as he’s suggested. 
In the circumstances, I’d decide Mr K still had access to the correct information – because 
the payment was included on the statements he’d been sent. So, if Mr K had legitimate 
concerns the payment wasn’t included on a breakdown, I think it’d have been a reasonable 
step to double check the statements he’d previously received to confirm if the payment 
showed there. So, I don’t think, even if Creation didn’t include this payment, I’d uphold this 
element of his complaint. 
 
Mr K has said Creation has raised false claims of missed payments – but we’ve previously 
asked Mr K to show us his statements to prove this and he’s chosen not to. In the 
circumstances the phone calls Mr K has had with Creation won’t satisfy me that Creation are 
lying as Mr K says. I’d need to see his statements showing this – which we’ve previously told 
Mr K. As at the date of this decision, Mr K hasn’t provided that evidence, so I’ve decided it 
with what I have on file. Creation’s internal systems show missed payments and I’ve no 
evidence to directly dispute that.  
 
I understand Mr K says he’s not interested in the £50 Creation awarded him – nor the £15.32 
I’ve awarded in his decision. This is fine, he doesn’t have to accept my decision – which 
means he won’t be paid the £15.32. For the £50, this has come off the outstanding balance, 
and there isn’t anything I plan to order Creation to do on this point – so the £50 will remain 
credited to Mr K’s account. And in relation to the interest being charged, I’ve seen nothing to 
suggest this wasn’t done in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr K says he 
can’t find any justification for them. It’s not entirely clear what Mr K means, but this is an 
interest bearing account and I think it like Mr K was aware of this when he took it out. It is 
also part of the terms he signed up to when he took out the agreement – so I’m satisfied he 
owes the interest. 
 
In relation to the outstanding amount of £283 I’m satisfied it is clear – Mr K’s purchases 
attracted interest which were charged because he borrowed money. Mr K is required under 
the terms of the account to pay the interest. I realise Mr K disputes that, but I don’t agree 
with his concerns here. So, although Mr K doesn’t believe it’s been explained to him how he 
owes £283, I’m satisfied it’s been sufficiently explained with reference to the interest that he 
owes that money. The 52 pages worth of statements he recently received also show how the 
balance accrued. It seems the key difference of opinion here is Mr K’s opinion he isn’t 
required to pay the interest that accrues on his purchases which – for the reasons I’ve 
already covered – I’m satisfied he does have to pay.  
 
In view of all of the above, I won’t be sanctioning Creation for reporting incorrect information 
to Mr K’s credit file. From everything I can see, Mr K legitimately owes £283, has refused to 
pay it without a justifiable reason I can see, so Creation took the steps I’d expect them to 
take by defaulting the account after giving him fair warning.  
 
 
 
Despite Mr K’s thoughts on the £15.32 interest I’ve said Creation should refund, I’m still 
required to reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome. My outcome remains  
Creation should pay this amount to him because they continued to charge default interest 
when they shouldn’t have. 
My final decision 
I partially uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to refund Mr K 
the amount of £15.32 which covers the amount of interest that shouldn’t have been charged 
plus a bit more. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2025. 
  
 
Jon Pearce 
Ombudsman 
 
