DRN-4279595
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim he’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”) and in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 
140A (s140A) of the CCA.
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr P throughout.
What happened
In December 2013, Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £9,795 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “B”. The total amount payable under 
the agreement was £15,403.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly 
repayments of £128.36.
Creation has explained Mr P settled the loan agreement on 12 September 2018.
On 20 December 2019 Creation said it received a letter of complaint from Mr P explaining 
that he considered he had a valid claim against it under s75 due to misrepresentation and 
breach of contract by B. Later Mr P also claimed there had been an unfair relationship 
under s140A. Mr P said he’d been told by B that he could be entitled to a solar panel 
system at no cost to him. He says he was told the system would be fully self-funding. 
Mr P told us that B told him the FIT payments and energy savings would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments. After the loan was repaid Mr P was told he could expect an income 
from the panels. Mr P told us he would not have entered into the agreement if he knew the 
benefits would not cover the cost of the borrowing. 
On the basis of the above Mr P said he had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. He also said section 56 (s56) of the CCA 
deemed B the agent of Creation when carrying out antecedent negotiations, and that the 
relationship between Creation and him was also unfair under s140A because either 
Creation or B falsely induced Mr P to take out a loan and as a result he has been 
prejudiced in paying back a loan with a significant interest rate which was not covered by 
the system installed as promised by B. To resolve the claim and complaint, Mr P 
requested to be compensated. 
Creation sent a final response letter on 21 March 2020 rejecting Mr P’s complaint on the 
basis it was made out of time based on their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. 
Creation did not comment on the s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of contract nor 
the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response. Mr P wasn’t happy with the 
response to the complaint so decided to refer it to our service on 13 August 2020.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the ‘LA’) due to the limitation period under the LA having expired. Consequently, 
Creation thought they had no liability to Mr P. Creation did not comment on the s75 claim 
so far as it concerned a breach of contract nor the s140A aspect of the complaint in its 
final response.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 13 August 
2020, which is the date when Mr P’s representative sent details of his complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr P’s s75 and s140A complaints, 
before turning to the merits of those complaints.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr P’s s75
claim on 21 March 2020. Mr P brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman
service on 13 August 2020. So, his complaint in relation to the s75 claim was brought in
time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr P’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Mr P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship ended on 12 September 2018 and the complaint in
relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service on 13 August 2020. So, the
s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event complained of and
has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about the alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into on 5 December 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that B (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 20 December 2019, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against B for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around December 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by I can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming B to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations B carried out direct with Mr P.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider B’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Mr P.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Mr P and B.
Mr P told us he was approached by B and informed he could be entitled to have a Solar 
System at absolutely no cost to him. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Mr P’s allegation he was told it would be self-funding. The loan 
agreement sets out Mr P’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly 
cost of that. 
I’ve also been supplied a sales brochure that B gave Mr P. That sales document from B 
sets out “11 Good Reasons” to install solar panels. These included: 
“Will give guaranteed returns of over 12%.
Tax free lump sum every year for 20 years.
Save thousands of your bill over next 25 years.
Get paid for using your own free electricity.
Pay as you earn scheme.”
So, this seems to support what Mr P told us; that the cost of the solar panels would be 
fully met from the income and savings they could generate. So, this does not undermine 
the testimony Mr W has given us.
I’ve also looked at B’s website from around the time of the sale. There is no cache of the 
website until April 2014, after Mr P purchased his panels, however the content is 
copyrighted as 2013. I am satisfied on this occasion it is reasonable to take this content 
into account when considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mr P.
On the home page it says:
“Free Solar Panels! Really?? This really proves the point about how beneficial solar power 
is. When you see companies advertising FREE Solar Panels they are after getting their 
hands on your rebates Feed In Tariffs for the next 20 years! Which more than covers the 
Solar panel cost and installation. Makes them a good a profit too. Is that free??” 
In the FAQ section it says:
“Q: So if solar panels systems are not free, how much does it cost?
A: Put simply given the generation tariffs that you get (FiTs) for 20 years because you 
installed solar and now generate electricity. Nearly all systems become self funding, 
meaning that the financial rewards far out way the cost of your system. The cost of your 
system will depend on your roof and system size.”
Taking all of this promotional material into account, it seems that consumers were 
supposed to understand that the solar panels would most likely be self-funding. And it 
seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mr P dealt with would’ve used 
similar lines to those B produced in its promotional literature.
Mr P told us that B told him the income from the solar panel system would pay off the 
agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr P’s testimony seemed 
persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that 
Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr P had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before B contacted him. Mr P has said he only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr P would have agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly 
outgoings would increase significantly. In saying that I’ve noted that Mr P was 75 years old 
and living on pension income at the time the loan agreement was signed.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that B did tell Mr P the scheme would be self-funding. On balance, I find Mr P’s account to 
be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,540 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Mr P’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
he’s achieved this benefit. For the FIT statements I’ve seen suggest Mr P received 
significantly less than that amount. I’ve not been supplied copies of Mr P’s electricity bills, 
so I don’t know what savings he made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s more 
likely than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Mr P made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely B gave Mr P a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
B’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Mr P was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that B’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr P went into the transaction. Either
way, B’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for B’s negotiations with Mr P in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Mr P and Creation to have been unfair.
Mr P has had to pay more than he expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Mr P otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Mr P fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of B’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of B’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr P received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr P may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
P is unwell. 
Creation has explained Mr P settled the loan agreement on 12 September 2018.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr P made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr P’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr P paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr P paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mr P C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr P
some further inconvenience. And I think the £200 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr P’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above in the 
section above called Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
