DRN-2909671
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer in response to her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was insufficient. 
  
What happened
Ms H bought solar panels for her home in May 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. 
Creation accepted the installer had misled Ms H and made an offer of settlement. Broadly 
speaking, that offer was to restructure the loan (which had been paid off) to make the solar 
panels self-funding. It also offered £100 compensation.
Ms H felt this was insufficient. She pointed out that she’d taken a new loan (with a different 
credit provider) in order to pay off the Creation loan and had to pay interest on that – which 
she wouldn’t have paid if she hadn’t been misled by the installer of the solar panels. So, she 
felt that the additional interest she paid on the new loan should be taken into account.
Ms H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought the costs of the 
new loan (in proportion to the amount used to repay the Creation loan) should be taken into 
account when Creation settled the complaint. Neither Creation nor Ms H’s representative 
responded to the adjudicator, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because Ms H wouldn’t have incurred 
the additional costs of the new loan had she not been misled about the benefits of the solar 
panels.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that Creation should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms H from the solar 
panels over the loan term so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms H has paid more than she should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Ms H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then I require Creation to restructure Ms H’s loan. It 
should recalculate the loan to put Ms H in a position where the solar panel system is cost 
neutral over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Because Ms H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms H paid on the part of the refinanced loan that was used to pay 
off the Creation loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I think that Creation’s offer of £100 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. So, if it hasn’t already done so, I direct 
Creation to pay Ms H £100 compensation.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms H’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
