DRN-3197666
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Ms L bought solar panels for her home in November 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Ms L into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Ms L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms L fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms L from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Ms L is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Ms L in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms L’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Ms L have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Ms L and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms L and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms L accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Ms L has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Ms L has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms L receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms L paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms L receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
