DRN-3337066
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
loan application. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M applied for a £5,000 loan over a four year term with Creation. In his 
application, Mr M said he had an income of £1,650 a month and paid rent of £300. Creation 
says it completed a credit search and found monthly commitments for unsecured loans of 
£541 and around £4,000 of revolving credit. 
Creation says the loan was approved in line with its lending criteria. Mr M missed two 
payments in 2019 and went on to clear the outstanding balance. 
Last year, Mr M complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly. Creation didn’t uphold 
Mr M’s complaint and he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
upheld Mr M’s complaint and asked Creation to refund all interest and charges applied to the 
loan from inception. They also asked Creation to remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr M’s credit file. 
The investigator’s findings were issued in September 2021 and Creation sent in some further 
information. But the investigator’s view didn’t change and despite multiple attempts to obtain 
a response to the complaint assessment, we didn’t hear back from Creation. As Creation 
didn’t respond to the investigator, Mr M’s complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Creation had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrower’s circumstances. The 
nature of what’s considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
-
The amount of credit;
-
The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-
The duration of the agreement;
-
The costs of the credit; and 
-
The consumer’s individual circumstances. 
That means there’s no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding what’s reasonable and proportionate.
I’ve looked at the information Creation had available when it considered Mr M’s loan 
application. I note Mr M’s unsecured loan repayments and outstanding balance were 
reasonably high when compared against his income. And whilst Creation took Mr M’s rent 
and borrowing into account, I haven’t seen anything that shows it factored other regular 
outgoings into its assessment. I think it’s reasonable to say borrowers are likely to have 
regular outgoings that aren’t covered by rent and unsecured credit. Taken with the four year 
term of the loan, I think Creation should’ve considered completing better checks to ensure 
the loan repayments were sustainable. 
As noted above, there’s no set list of checks Creation had to complete. But an option for 
verifying a consumer’s circumstances would’ve been to get a copy of Mr M’s bank 
statements for the period running up to the application. Mr M has sent us copies of the 
relevant bank statements. They show Mr M’s outgoings were higher than Creation found 
when completing a credit search. The statements show that Mr M’s income was lower than 
the figure given in the application. 
Had Creation completed better checks I think it would’ve found further borrowing was 
unsustainable for Mr M and declined to proceed. As a result, I’m upholding Mr M’s compliant. 
It wouldn’t be fair for Creation to report adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly. So I’m also going to tell Creation to remove any adverse information reported 
on Mr M’s credit file in relation to this loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
-
Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr M’s loan from inception to redemption
-
Pay interest on the above at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
-
Remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr M’s credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Creation should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
