DRN-4647080
The complaint
Miss D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has treated her unfairly in relation to 
her fixed sum loan agreement and reporting on her credit file.
What happened
In July 2021 Miss D entered into a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement with Creation for £852.97 to 
pay for a computer and associated accessories. This was due to be paid back over 24 
months at £35.54 per month. Creation says number of payments were missed and Creation 
reported this on Miss D’s credit file. Miss D says she didn’t know payments weren’t being 
taken and didn’t know a default was being applied to her account. She says she agreed with 
Creation a number of arrangements to pay the arrears, so she shouldn’t have a default on 
this account. She says applying a default in these circumstances is unfair. So she 
complained to Creation who said it had done nothing wrong. So she complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. Overall, she didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly. 
Miss D didn’t agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has provided its evidence on the matter. Miss D says she didn’t get letters from 
Creation. I’ve compared Miss D’s address she gave on the fixed sum loan agreement, her 
address on Creation’s records and the address she’s given to this service recently when she 
made her complaint here. All the addresses are the same. So I’m satisfied Creation hasn’t 
made a mistake with her address.
I’ve considered Creation’s record of Miss D’s payments to this account since the loan was 
made. It’s clear Miss D’s direct debit payments haven’t successfully credited her Creation 
account on a number of occasions in both 2021 and 2022. This is because the Direct Debit 
was returned unpaid. I can see Miss D repeatedly made ad hoc payments using her card 
during this time which kept the account from falling into arrears. In May 2022 and June 2022 
(twice) Creation wrote to Miss D telling her she was in arrears. Miss D then got back on track 
with her payments in July 2022. However in August 2022 two Direct Debits were both 
reversed due to insufficient funds and Miss D fell into arrears again. I can see on the account 
that when Creation wrote to Miss D about her arrears, on occasions she was charged for 
such correspondence as per the terms and conditions of the account. So I don’t think 
Creation did anything wrong by making these charges and I’m satisfied on balance the 
letters were sent to the address Miss D specified.
Creation then agreed an arrangement with Miss D to pay off the arrears but the records 
show Miss D didn’t meet her side of the arrangement by making the necessary payments. In 
October 2022 Creation and Miss D agreed a new arrangement to catch up on arrears, but 
Miss D didn’t make the agreed payment that month either. A third arrangement was agreed 
but Miss D failed to make the agreed payment in December 2022. Across December 2022, 
January 2023 and March 2023 further letters were sent to Miss D about her arrears. It is 
clear to me Creation made a number of arrangements with Miss D, (which she didn’t 
maintain) and Creation wrote to her regularly on the matter. And clearly there was discussion 
between Miss D and Creation as the arrangements were arranged in such discussions.
Creation sent Miss D a notice of default letter in March 2023 and this was reflected on her 
credit file from April 2023. I’m satisfied on balance that the letter was sent and correctly 
addressed. Creation has provided a sample of the letter sent and its computer records 
showing the reference of the letter and the sample letter mirrors that reference. So although 
it hasn’t provided a copy of the actual letter it sent her, I’m satisfied on balance the audit trail 
Creation has provided shows a default letter was sent when the records show it was sent. 
So I don’t think Creation made a mistake here.
Miss D argues that arrangements to pay should mean no default should be added to her 
records. However arrangements to pay are arrangements to pay off the arrears that had 
accrued and when an account is in arrears for enough payment cycles then firms are entitled 
to apply a default. It should be noted that the records show that payments weren’t received 
in line with the terms of these arrangements and so the account was repeatedly in arrears 
for periods during this accounts’ history. It can become unfair on borrowers if accounts aren’t 
defaulted in such circumstances because it prolongs matters unnecessarily. I’m satisfied on 
balance that considering the missed payments and arrears being in place for sufficiently 
long, Creation was entitled to use its discretion to apply a default when it did.
Miss D has repeatedly said she didn’t know there was a problem with her payments. I can 
see why she says this, but it is her responsibility to make the payments or to liaise with 
Creation if she can’t pay. And I’ve seen evidence which indicates the direct debit set up to 
make the payments was stopped in November 2022 and this wasn’t done by Creation. I’ve 
also seen that throughout the account there were repeated instances of Miss D making ad 
hoc payments to the account by card. And some of these ad hoc payments occur when 
direct debits were returned unpaid. Bearing in mind these repeated interactions with 
Creation, the card payments and the letters sent, I’m not persuaded Creation has treated her 
unfairly here by considering it had made clear that the direct debits were repeatedly not 
crediting the account as it should. Particularly after it received notice that the Direct Debit 
had been stopped. I don’t think Creation failed to take action to notify Miss D of the issues 
present.
Miss D says she was told the arrangements would stop further activity. But I don’t think 
Creation has acted unfairly, bearing in mind Miss D regularly failed to make the payments 
under the arrangements agreed. Miss D has provided an email that says the arrangement 
‘will prevent receiving calls, letters and charges’, however it doesn’t say defaults wouldn’t be 
applied particularly if the arrangement isn’t adhered to. So I’m not persuaded Creation has 
done anything wrong here.
Miss D has argued she didn’t know payments were not being made. It seems clear from the 
evidence that the direct debit to pay this account was stopped some time ago. Its also clear 
from Miss D regularly making card payments that she was aware the account wasn’t up to 
date from payments from a direct debit otherwise there would be no reason to make card 
payments. And ultimately it is Miss D’s responsibility to ensure she meets the payments due. 
I’ve seen many instances of Creation writing to Miss D and lots of other contact between the 
parties. It is Miss D’s responsibility to ensure she met the terms of the loan agreement made 
by making the payments and managing her account with Creation in line with the agreement 
she made with Creation.
Miss D says she would have paid off what was necessary if she’d known about the default 
was going to be put on her account. However it is clear Miss D repeatedly made 
arrangements to pay with Creation and didn’t make the agreed payments. And I’m satisfied 
Creation sent her notice of default letter when it said it did.
Miss D has said she lives at two addresses. She’s only provided one address to Creation 
and I’m satisfied all the letters its records show it sent her were addressed to this address 
she gave. So I don’t think Creation did anything wrong.
Miss D points to issues with her email and discovering emails in her spam folder. I’m sorry to 
hear this but this is the email address provided by Miss D to Creation, so I’m not persuaded 
Creation has made a mistake by using it.
I appreciate that Miss D feels strongly about what happened and this isn’t the decision she 
wishes to read. However having considered all the evidence and requirements in the 
Consumer Credit Act and from the FCA and ICO, I’m not persuaded Creation has treated 
her unfairly in any way in these matters. Consequently her complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. It has nothing further to do here.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2024.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman
