 
 
DRN-4049274 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Miss G has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Miss G throughout.  
What happened 
In November 2015 Miss G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £7,995 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The agreement was 
for 10 years, and Miss G was due to pay 120 instalments of £103.35. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,402 including interest.  
In June 2022 Miss G put in a claim with Creation. She said S cold called her and persuaded 
her to have a sales meeting at her home. She said S made several misrepresentations, the 
main one being that the system would be self-funding. She said S told her the electricity 
generated by the system would lead to her being paid feed in tariff (FIT) payments. She said 
S told her she’d make significant savings on electricity bills. She said S told her the benefits 
would cover the loan payments. Miss G said she wasn’t given enough time to go through the 
paperwork. Miss G said she’d calculated her monthly shortfall through the system as being 
around £50. 
Creation sent a final response letter in December 2022 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Miss G decided to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
One of our investigators looked into things and said he thought the s.140A complaint had 
been brought within our time limits. But he said he’d attempted to contact Miss G to ask 
further questions and obtain testimony from her, but he hadn’t received a response. Our 
investigator said he’d only seen limited documentation from the point of sale. He said he 
couldn’t find any relevant information when carrying out research into S. He noted Miss G 
hadn’t contacted S to raise any concerns within the three years it was trading after the 
installation. He said it took Miss G over six years to raise concerns with Creation. Our 
investigator said, on balance, he didn’t think Creation needed to take any action, and he 
didn’t uphold the complaint.  
Miss G said she didn’t agree with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
 
 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Miss G’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay a section 75 (“s.75”) claim and the allegations of an unfair 
relationship under s.140A. 
The s.75 complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Miss G’s s.75 claim 
in December 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Miss G brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in September 2022 and 
asked us to continue to investigate after the final response letter was sent. So, her complaint 
in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss G. Here I understand the relationship 
was ongoing when Miss G put in her claim and complaint, and referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The s.75 complaint  
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in November 2015. Miss G brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation in June 2022. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with 
it. Given this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 
claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
 
 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss G.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Miss G says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Miss G says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Miss G to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. 
We’ve also been supplied an invoice and a satisfaction note. The satisfaction note signed by 
Miss G set out the system was expected to perform at 3,752kWh annually. And it set out: 
Expected generation tariff income 
£467 
Expected export tariff income  
£90 
Combined total income 
 
£557  
The satisfaction note I’ve seen was signed around a week or so after Miss G signed the 
fixed sum loan, presumably around the time of installation.   
I’m conscious our investigator tried to speak to Miss G several times to ask questions about 
the sale of the system, and he wrote to Miss G as well asking for information. Our 
investigator wanted to know more details about Miss G’s recollections; her circumstances at 
the time; details of what happened with the paperwork; Miss G’s understanding of the sales 
presentation; and details of anything else significant that Miss G remembered from the sale. 
Miss G didn’t respond to our investigator’s request. And she’s not offered any substantive 
comments in response to our investigator’s assessment not upholding the complaint. 
The satisfaction note broadly sets out the estimated benefits of the system quite clearly. 
Miss G knew the loan payments were around £1,200 per year. It’s not clear why she didn’t 
raise concerns sooner when she signed a satisfaction note setting out the estimated annual 
benefit was £557. Without hearing from her, it’s impossible to know, or to be able to reach 
firmer conclusions.  
For this particular case, I’d like to have been more certain S misled Miss G about the 
benefits of the system. From what I’ve seen, it looks like S did give Miss G information so 
she could compare the overall costs to the benefits she’d likely receive. She sent a letter of 
claim in 2022 setting out her complaint points. But we’ve not been able to speak to her or 
obtain a response to our written requests from her to understand more about the 
circumstances of her complaint, and her reasons for not raising it sooner. I think the 
investigator was trying to obtain reasonable information and he set out his reasons for not 
upholding the complaint. Miss G hasn’t provided substantive comments on why she 
disagreed.  
Moreover, I’ve also not been able to find any other compelling evidence from around the 
time of the sale that supports Miss G’s allegations. So, on balance, I don’t think there’s 
sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. I’m therefore not going to make any directions.  
 
 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
