DRN-2859253
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) gave him a loan that he 
couldn’t afford. 
He says he was already struggling with debts and that it was irresponsible of Creation to 
give him the money. 
What happened
In March 2017, Creation agreed to provide Mr J with a loan to consolidate some of his 
existing debts. The loan was for £15,000, repayable over four years. The APR was 18.9%, 
the monthly repayment £436.22 and the total amount repayable £20,938.56.
In 2020, Mr J complained to Creation that it shouldn’t have lent him the money, because he 
hadn’t been able to afford the repayments and it had made his situation worse.
Creation didn’t uphold the complaint. It said that the appropriate background checks had 
been completed and that the finance was approved based on the information provided by 
Mr J at the time of the application.  
Mr J referred his complaint to this Service. An investigator here looked into things and took 
the view that he didn’t think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, that:
-
He didn’t think Creation had carried out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr J could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. This was bearing in mind that there were 
signs Mr J was having some difficulty managing his money. And that this ought to 
have been explored further. 
-
However, he didn’t think that such checks would’ve led Creation to conclude that the 
loan was unaffordable. This was based on Mr J’s bank statements indicating that he 
would be left with a reasonable amount of disposable income after factoring in 
relevant expenditure.
Mr J remained unhappy and so the case was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the file, I asked for further information from both parties. 
I asked Creation for:
-
Further information about the checks it had carried out prior to agreeing to lend to 
Mr J
-
Information about some other credit that Mr J appeared to have with Creation. 
I asked Mr J to:
-
Explain why he disagreed with the investigator’s findings. 
-
Provide further information about expenditure on groceries, as his bank statements 
suggested surprisingly low spend on this. 
Creation provided the additional information I’d requested. 
Mr J responded to further explain how difficult his situation had been and why he considered 
that Creation shouldn’t have lent to him. With regards to the question about spend on 
groceries, he said that most of the time he went without, as long as his daughter was fed that 
was the important thing. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I don’t uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr J, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand why I’ve reached 
this conclusion. 
I would add that it is clear to me that Mr J has been through a very difficult and challenging 
time due to various things happening in his life. After the lending in question, it’s clear that he 
experienced significant financial difficulties. But as I’ll explain below, at the time of the 
lending, I can’t see he was experiencing these difficulties. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr J says Creation shouldn’t have lent to him, given the 
difficulties he was facing at the time. I’ve needed to think about whether Creation met its 
regulatory obligations and, if it didn’t, the impact (if any) this had on Mr J.
Under the regulations in place at the time Creation agreed to provide Mr J with the loan, 
Creation needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Mr J could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
If I find that the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and based on this 
Creation made a fair lending decision, then the complaint wouldn’t be upheld. If I find the 
checks carried out weren’t reasonable and proportionate, I’ll need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
What makes a reasonable and proportionate checks depends on relevant factors, such as 
the detail of the proposed lending in question (amount, type, duration, cost etc) and Mr J’s 
circumstances at the time. 
Creation has said it checked affordability by considering Mr J’s income against expenditure 
in terms of rent and the repayment of existing debt. It says it factored in that Mr J was 
intending to use the loan to consolidate much of his existing debt. And that this indicated he 
had reasonable disposable income left to meet other expenditure. It has also said that it 
checked for any recent CCJs and arrears (and didn’t find any) and that Mr J fell within its 
lending policy in terms of the monthly debt to income ratio. 
I agree with the investigator that I don’t think this represented reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I say this because Mr J was borrowing a significant sum of money and repaying it 
over quite a long period of time. The monthly repayment amount on its own represented a 
significant proportion of his net monthly income – almost a quarter. Also, at the point of 
applying for the loan, Mr J had accrued quite a significant amount of debt. Although the 
purpose of the loan was debt consolidation, it was known that it wouldn’t clear all of Mr J’s 
existing debts. 
Taking all of those factors into account, I think reasonable and proportionate checks 
would’ve involved taking a closer look at Mr J’s income and expenditure – to check that he 
would be able to sustainably make the repayments over the term of the loan.
In terms of getting a better understanding of Mr J’s financial situation, in particular in relation 
to his income and outgoings, Creation could’ve done this in a number of ways. As Creation 
didn’t take these steps, I can’t know what the checks would’ve revealed. However, I’ve seen 
a number of Mr J’s bank statements in the lead up to the loan application. 
I think it’s fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on this as an 
indication of what Mr J’s financial circumstances were likely to have been. And what 
Creation would’ve likely uncovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
The statements indicate that Mr J wasn’t having particular trouble managing his money in 
the lead up to applying for the Creation loan. I appreciate he has said he was already 
experiencing difficulty at that point in time, but the statements don’t support this. 
Across the three months leading up to the loan, Mr J’s total expenditure broadly equalled his 
total income. The expenditure was slightly higher, but it was marginal. The account was in 
credit the vast majority of the time. The statements show that when essential expenditure is 
deducted from Mr J’s income, he was left with a reasonable amount of disposable income – 
such that the loan repayment would’ve appeared to be repayable in a sustainable manner. 
Although the statements don’t show very much expenditure on groceries, had some 
additional essential expenditure been factored in, the loan repayments would still have 
appeared affordable and sustainable.
As such, I find that if Creation had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think it 
likely would’ve concluded that the loan repayments were affordable. 
I appreciate that Mr J has said he was already experiencing difficulty at the point of applying 
for the loan. However, his bank statements in the lead up to the loan and his credit file 
indicate that he ran into difficulty after applying for the loan. 
It follows that, in the end, I cannot reasonably conclude that Creation made an unfair lending 
decision. Because of this, it doesn’t need to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr J’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman
