DRN-2725863
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) prevented him from 
settling a loan early by failing to provide a suitable communication channel. And this led to 
him incurring unnecessary costs. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I’ve summarised events.

Mr C took a 36-month loan with Creation. This included a 12-month holiday period 
which meant he could settle the loan without interest if he repaid it by 15 June 2020.

Mr C says he tried to contact Creation on a number of occasions prior to this date by 
phone but was unable to speak to anyone as it was running a reduced service. He 
said a pre-recorded message told him to complete the transaction online, but he said 
he didn’t have an online account – and when trying to set one up he’d been unable to 
register. He said he also contacted Creation by email. 

Creation said it had written to Mr C with reminders of this offer previously and given 
him enough notification. And although Mr C didn’t receive these letters, this had been 
his own mistake as he’d not told Creation of his updated address. So, it said it 
wouldn’t allow him to use the offer as he’d repaid too late.

Mr C brought the complaint to our service and the investigator upheld the complaint. 
She was satisfied Mr C had the funds to settle the loan and had tried to do this by 
phone prior to the deadline – supported by his memory of its specific messaging from 
the time about high call volumes. And as he’d been trying to reach Creation and the 
call volumes prevented this from happening, she said it should allow him to settle the 
loan in line with the special offer.

Creation disagreed, saying there was no evidence he’d tried to contact it prior to an 
email of 18 June 2020 querying how to settle the loan online. And it said there was 
no “problem” with the phone lines, simply that the hold times were longer due to 
unprecedented call volumes.

The investigator looked again but didn’t change her mind. She said Mr C’s testimony 
and recall of events persuaded her that he had called in time, and this hadn’t been 
possible. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman’s final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why.

There’s no dispute Mr C was aware of the significance of repaying his loan prior to 15 
June 2020 ahead of time. So whether he received letters from Creation doesn’t 
impact anything in this case as I’m satisfied he knew of this.

What is in dispute is whether Mr C tried to contact Creation ahead of this deadline. 
Creation says there’s no evidence to support he did call it. But I’ve also thought 
carefully about its own description of its phonelines across this time. It’s said while 
there wasn’t a “problem”, the volumes were “unprecedented” and led to waiting times 
longer than it “…would have wanted.” This suggests to me that it’s plausible Mr C 
had called but been unable to get through.

I’m mindful here that Mr C’s attempts to contact Creation were at a time shortly after 
a national lockdown was imposed and many businesses experienced severe 
problems with maintaining their usual phone capabilities for consumers. 

I’ve also thought about what Mr C has said and I think his account of events is 
plausible and persuasive. I say this as Mr C has been consistent in what happened 
and referred to Creation’s automated messages directing him to go online to make 
the payment. This ties in with the email Creation has acknowledged where he asked 
about this online payment method shortly after the deadline. 

For all of these reasons, I’m satisfied it’s most likely Mr C had been calling Creation 
prior to this deadline to make payment. And he was prevented from doing so in this 
case as a result of this high volumes. So, in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I think Creation needs to allow Mr C to settle his loan as if he had made 
the payment on 15 June 2020.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

accept Mr C’s payment to settle the loan as if this had been paid on or before 15 
June 2020 (if it hasn’t done so already); 

upon payment, it should return any interest or subsequent payments made by Mr C 
with 8% interest from the date paid (if there are any); and

amend any credit reference agencies records to reflect the loan being settled on 15 
June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman
