DRN-3049047
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015.The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S has added that after he was initially given a quote, the supplier reduced the cost of the 
solar panels by £1,000 and this is the price he accepted. But he says the finance agreement 
with Creation was wrongly processed with the higher figure. So, he also feels he was 
overcharged. 
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought the loan had been 
wrongly set up for the higher amount and felt that Creation should redress this. She also 
thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress 
would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. Firstly, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
I can also see that Mr S was initially given a quote for £7,995 for the cost of the solar panels. 
But he’s then submitted another quote which is dated approximately two weeks after the 
original quote for a lower figure of £6,995. The invoice given to Mr S by the supplier, also 
shows the supplier received £6,995. This I think strongly supports Mr S’s testimony, that the 
price agreed with the supplier was for £6,995 – but the annual statement from Creation 
indicates it set up the loan for £7,995. I haven’t seen a credit agreement as neither Creation 
nor Mr S have provided a copy. But If Mr S was charged £7,995 – then I think he has been 
charged more than what he agreed to pay for these Solar Panels.  
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think Creation should make two adjustments to this loan 
agreement. It should first, restructure this loan, as if the total amount borrowed was £6,995 
(if indeed he was charged £7,995). Any amounts he has overpaid, should be refunded and I 
would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement.
Then, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr S’s complaint 
for Creation to put things right by making a second adjustment. This is by recalculating the 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10 - year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr S the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr S should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
