 
 
DRN-4885393 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) is responsible for 
mishandling his credit plan after his direct debit arrangement was cancelled. 
 
What happened 
Mr M took out a credit plan agreement with Creation in September 2022 when he purchased 
goods from a high street retailer. He supplied his bank details so that his repayments could 
be taken by way of a direct debit arrangement.  
 
On 15 November 2022 Creation received a notification from Mr M’s bank to cancel the direct 
debit mandate. The notification came via the automated direct debit instruction service.  
 
Following the cancellation of Mr M’s direct debit, Creation immediately wrote to him to let him 
know about this and then followed up with further letters explaining that his credit file would 
be affected if he didn’t settled the arrears. Further letters were sent letting Mr M know that 
charges had been added to his account when the arrears remained outstanding.  
 
Because arrears continued to build up on the account, a notice of default was issued on 
16 January 2024. However, the default wasn’t applied after Mr M got in touch with Creation 
to explain to them what had happened. But Mr M’s account remained in arrears. Creation 
then agreed to set up a new Direct Debit for Mr M so that he would first be able to pay off the 
arrears and then settle the account in full. 
 
Mr M said he never asked his bank to cancel the direct debit instruction and he wasn’t 
informed at the time it happened. He would like his credit file amended to show he hasn’t 
missed any payments. He also says he was unable to log into his Creation account to sort 
things out when he received letters telling him his account was in arrears. He also says that 
Creation admitted it had made a mistake by not collecting the repayments that were due  
 
Creation didn’t uphold Mr M’s complaint. It said all its processes had been followed correctly. 
It said that as a responsible lender Mr M’s credit file has to reflect what had happened to the 
repayments on his finance agreement.  
 
Mr M therefore brought his complaint to this service. He wants the credit markers that were 
placed on his credit file due to the non-payments on his account to be removed. He also 
wants compensation for the distress and inconvenience these events have caused him.  
 
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. Although Mr M has referred to some phone 
conversations where he tried to set up online access, there’s no record of these taking place. 
As it was Mr M’s responsibility to ensure the payments were being made, our investigator 
thought he ought also have been aware that direct debit payments were no longer being 
taken. And whilst he was sorry to learn of the frustration this had caused Mr M, he didn’t 
think Creation had done anything wrong.  
 
Mr M disagreed with our investigator’s opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I realise Mr M considers that Creation has acted unfairly. However, I can only make a finding 
based on the evidence and information that’s available to us. I have therefore reviewed what 
Mr M has told us, the system records held by Creation and copies of correspondence that 
Creation sent him after the direct debit was cancelled. This includes the screenshot evidence 
provided by Creation – which our investigator has shared with Mr M – which appears to 
show that Mr M had made the instruction for the direct debit to be cancelled. I know that 
Mr M is adamant that he never did this but given that I have no reason to think this might not 
accurately reflect what happened on the time, I have taken this evidence at face value.  
 
I’ve also seen the steps Creation took to make Mr M aware that his direct debit mandate had 
been cancelled. And when the direct debit wasn’t reinstated I’ve seen that Mr M was sent 
reminders as the missed payments built up, as well as the consequences of not making the 
payments. I think these steps were fair and reasonable. And it was always open to Mr M to 
get in touch with Creation sooner so that he could make the outstanding payments over the 
phone and get his account back to where it should have been. 
 
I also think it’s worthwhile pointing out that Mr M’s agreement was with Creation, as the 
lender – and not the retailer. I say this because I’ve seen a suggestion that Mr M may have 
got in touch with the retailer about this issue. But the retailer wasn’t responsible for ensuring 
that the direct debit payments would be taken. So that would be unlikely to have helped him 
with restoring the direct debit or repaying the arrears.  
 
I know Mr M disputes that he cancelled the direct debit. But, based on all the available 
evidence and information I’ve seen, I am unable to fairly say that the cancellation of Mr M’s 
direct debit was Creation’s fault. And given that Mr M has made his complaint about 
Creation, I am only looking at what Creation did or didn’t do. And I also can’t say that 
Creation has admitted it made a mistake – and what that mistake was - as I have no 
supporting evidence of that happening.  
 
Of course, that doesn’t exclude the possibility that something may have gone wrong at the 
point where the change to Mr M’s direct debit was made, which would likely be at Mr M’s 
own bank. So it remains open to Mr M to raise the issue with his bank should he wish to.  
 
I know Mr M feels he’s been let down by Creation and I’m sorry to hear that. But having 
thought carefully about everything I’ve seen, I don’t consider that Creation has acted unfairly. 
I therefore won’t be asking it to do anything more.  
 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr M on this occasion. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve set out above, I don’t uphold Mr M’s complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2024.  
 
Michael Goldberg 
Ombudsman 
 
