DRN-4105111
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is asking him to pay for a laptop he 
didn’t receive. Mr B is represented by another party but for ease of reference I have referred 
to Mr B throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr B ordered a laptop on 9 November 2020 which was to be financed through a credit facility 
with Creation. The laptop was due to be delivered on 10 November 2020. Mr B says the 
laptop wasn’t delivered and he made several attempts to contact the retailer about this but 
couldn’t make contact. He says he used the online chat facility, and the advisers couldn’t say 
why his delivery hadn’t been made and said there wasn’t a record of the order being placed. 
Mr B says that he gave up chasing the order and placed an order elsewhere for a different 
laptop and didn’t think any more about this issue. But 11 months later he was contacted 
about payment for the laptop he hadn’t received. He raised this with the retailer and then 
with Creation. 
Creation issued a final response letter in September 2022. It said that it received a call from 
Mr B on 21 January 2022 on which it was explained that it required a notice from the retailer 
if there were changes required to an agreement. It said it contacted the retailer and it 
confirmed on 26 January that the agreement should not be cancelled, and that Mr B needed 
to refer to the retailer directly. It said that it had done nothing wrong by continuing with its 
collections process and that the account was eventually passed to a third party to collect on 
its behalf.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He noted 
the limited information available given and the time that had passed but said that on balance 
he thought it likely Mr B had cancelled the laptop order and so shouldn’t now be charged for 
this.
Creation didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. It contacted the delivery company to see if 
further evidence could be provided but unfortunately it no longer had the records available. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence provided is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider to most likely have 
happened based on the information provided and the wider circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr B placed an order for a laptop that was to be financed through his credit facility with 
Creation. The credit facility included a ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ element which meant Mr B had a 
12 month interest free period in which payments didn’t need to be made for the laptop. This 
period was due to expire on 9 November 2021 after which Mr B would be required to make 
monthly repayments of around £33. 
The specified delivery date for the laptop was 10 November 2020. Mr B says the laptop 
wasn’t delivered on 10 November and when he chased this he struggled to get through to 
the retailer and when he made contact through the online chat, he was told it couldn’t say 
why the delivery hadn’t been made and there was no record of the order. The retailer has 
provided information saying that the laptop was purchased online through the Creation credit 
facility and the laptop was dispatched the same day. It said the laptop should have been 
delivered between 10 and 13 November 2020 but that due to the passage of time the 
tracking information is no longer available. Creation has also attempted to get information 
from the delivery company but given this wasn’t requested until April 2023 the information 
was no longer available.
I have looked through the system logs provided by the retailer and can see Mr B’s order was 
dispatched on 9 November 2020. But I have no evidence to confirm whether or not the 
laptop was delivered. The delivery would have been undertaken by a third party and it has 
confirmed tracking information is no longer available. Creation has also said the retailer 
doesn’t have any way to check if the laptop has been used or sold. Without evidence that the 
laptop was delivered, I have considered what, based on the information I have and the wider 
circumstances of the complaint, is most likely to have happened. And, based on this whether 
it is reasonable that Mr B be pursued for payment for the laptop.
The retailer has said that Mr B contacted it on 2 October 2021 to say he never received the 
laptop. The retailer’s back office team responded to the ‘Lost in transit’ request to say there 
was no evidence that Mr B contacted it in 2020 about the issue and due to the time that had 
passed this couldn’t be investigated. It also said that the order wasn’t accessed by it until 2 
October 2021 and had contact been made in 2020 the order would have been accessed at 
that time. In contrast, Mr B says that he made contact through an online chat and was told 
there was no record of the order. He said he tried other means of contact but was 
unsuccessful. Based on the information provided, I cannot say for certain what contact was 
made in regard to this purchase in November 2020. I do however accept that this was an 
unusual time for businesses due to the pandemic and Mr B has said that when contact was 
made through the online chat, he was told the adviser was working from home and didn’t 
have full access to the systems. So, it is possible that contact was made at that time but 
didn’t get recorded.
Accepting that contact may have been made this still doesn’t confirm that the laptop wasn’t 
delivered. I have therefore considered the other information provided in this case. Mr B has 
provided a copy of a receipt for another laptop purchased on 11 November from another 
retailer (order details with the same address details as his). I think this supports his 
testimony that he thought his previous purchase had been cancelled as it is unlikely the 
second purchase would have been made a couple of days later if he had received (or was 
still expecting to receive) the initial laptop. 
Creation has noted that Mr B didn’t make contact about this issue until October 2021, around 
a year after the laptop was due to be delivered. I understand the comment made and have 
addressed the different information provided about contact in November 2020 above. Mr B 
says he made contact in October 2021 as he was being charged for the laptop. This makes 
sense as the Buy Now Pay Later period was coming to an end. I cannot say that Creation 
was wrong to make contact with Mr B about payment as it hadn’t been informed by the 
retailer that the agreement needed to be cancelled. 
While I note that Mr B made contact when the payments were about to start, I can also see 
that Creation provided monthly statements for the plan that was set up for the laptop 
purchase. Copies of statements have been provided and these include the laptop, purchase 
date and information about when payments would fall due. We have requested evidence of 
statements being provided from when the plan was activated in November 2020 until when 
the payment became due. Creation has provided evidence of statements from September 
2021. Creation has also provided evidence showing more recent statements haven’t been 
accessed by Mr B and I cannot say whether he accessed any statements that may have 
been available between November 2020 and October 2021. So, while the information may 
have been available to Mr B that would have shown the agreement still in place for the 
laptop, I can accept that if he thought there wasn’t an agreement in place (based on his 
comments about the call from November 2020) then he wouldn’t have been checking these 
and it would only be when the payment request came through that he would have realised 
there was an issue.
Given the above, I cannot say for certain whether or not the laptop was delivered. The 
delivery company when contacted for further details said it only held details for around two 
years. Therefore, there is a chance that had Creation made contact at the point the 
complaint was first raised that further information might have been provided. But as this 
information isn’t available, I have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities 
and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
In this case, I think the purchase of the second laptop supports Mr B’s testimony that the 
original laptop hadn’t been delivered. Mr B didn’t access his statements online which further 
suggest he wasn’t aware the agreement was still in place and supports why he only raised 
his complaint when he was contacted for payment. Therefore, while I accept there isn’t clear 
evidence to confirm whether or not the laptop was delivered, on balance I find I accept 
Mr B’s testimony and so I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
On the balance of probability in light of the limited evidence available to me and as explained 
above, I don’t feel it’s fair to hold Mr B liable for the payments.  
To put things right, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

if Mr B has made any payments towards this, then to refund these payments with 8% 
simple interest* from the date of payment till the date of settlement;

remove any negative marker(s) that may have been added to Mr B’s credit file in 
regard to this agreement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if asked for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
