DRN-3491048
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined to uphold his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that there had be a misrepresentation as to 
the cost of carpets which he’d financed via a fixed sum loan.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr W visited a retailer and selected some carpets and items of furniture 
he wished to purchase. There was a promotion available for the carpets to be fitted 
free.
Mr W says he was quoted a price of £3,299 for the carpets and £249 for the furniture. The 
carpet cost was subject to a surveyor visiting his home to take measurements. Mr W says 
he was told that he may have to pay the carpet fitters on the day they attended to fit the 
carpet but the cost of this (around £390) would then be deducted from the price of the 
carpets.
Mr W was happy at the cost quoted for the carpets and arranged for the surveyor to visit. 
Around two weeks later the surveyor attended and measured up. Mr W says that following 
the measurements being taken the cost of the carpet increased by £89.11. Mr W says that 
when the surveyor attended, they had a hand-held electronic device with them, and he 
was asked to sign this device to say that the measurements taken were accurate. Mr W 
says that he wasn’t provided with any paperwork by the surveyor and there was no 
discussion about any carpet fitting fee.
The following day Mr W returned to the shop to place the order. He says there was some 
confusion about the cost with the salesperson he spoke with who wasn’t the same person 
he’d originally dealt with. Mr W says that after some time the salesperson confirmed the 
cost of the carpets and the furniture was now £3,638.88.
Mr W says that the order that was then produced wasn’t correct, so he wrote amendments 
on it including that the carpet cost was £3,389.01 and the furniture cost was £249.87. He 
took a photo of this order form with his amendments and told the salesperson he would 
send it to them via email so there was a copy of what had been agreed. Mr W also signed 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for the amount of £3,638.88. Mr W says he 
confirmed with the salesperson that this would be the total cost with nothing additional to 
pay and that the carpet fitting was free.
Mr W sent the salesperson the photo together with an email saying, “thanks for sorting 
the price error regarding the fitting showing”. He also set out the cost of the carpet as 
£3,389.01 and the furniture as £249.87. The salesperson responded that the contents of 
the email was “correct”.
When the carpet fitters arrived in August 2020, they informed Mr W that he was required 
to pay them £390 for their service. Mr W paid that amount and then contacted the retailer 
asking for that amount to be deducted from finance agreement. The retailer didn’t reduce 
the amount of credit and so Mr W complained to Creation.
Creation didn’t uphold Mr W’s claim that he should be reimbursed £390 for the carpet 
fitting. It said that on the estimate document it sent out it showed there was a fitting fee of 
£389.98 to pay directly to the fitters and that this amount had been deducted from the 
original cost of the carpet making the fitting free. It said the carpet price after the fitting fee 
had been deducted was £3,389.01. It also said that the surveyor who visited Mr W’s 
home would have explained about the fitting fee being paid directly to the carpet fitters 
and that Mr W had signed to say he understood this.
Creation said that it had spoken with the sales manager who had confirmed they had 
informed Mr W about the need to pay the fitters directly when he ordered the carpet. It said 
the retailer had provided Mr W with a copy of the internal costing document which it said 
also showed that the cost of the fitting had been deducted from the cost of the carpet.
Mr W disagreed with Creation, he disputed that the surveyor had said anything about the 
fitting cost being deducted or that payments would need to be made directly to the fitters. 
He said he had been assured that there wouldn’t be any additional cost to the £3,638.88 
he’d taken out via the fixed sum loan. Mr W complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr W’s complaint should be upheld. She said she was 
satisfied that the cost of the carpet had been misrepresented to Mr W and that this 
misrepresentation had induced Mr W to enter the contract since it had been cheaper 
than another quote he’d obtained.
Our investigator said that there had been a discussion between the retailer and Mr W 
about discrepancies on the invoice and the retailer had agreed about the cost of the 
carpets and furniture. There had been no mention, she said, about the fitting of the 
carpet having been discounted from the price of the carpets and that would have been 
the time to clarify there was an additional cost for Mr W to pay directly to the fitters. Our 
investigator said no new invoice was provided to Mr W, but if it had it would have only 
shown the cost of the carpets and furniture.
To put things right, our investigator said it would be fair for Creation to reimburse Mr W the
£390 carpet fitting fee he’d paid together with interest. She also said it would be fair for 
Creation to pay Mr W compensation of £75 to reflect the length of time it had taken to 
deal with his claim under section 75 and its lack of communication.
Mr W had agreed with our investigator’s view, but Creation disagreed. It said that when 
Mr W returned to the store after the surveyor had visited his home, an order was built and 
then cancelled meaning the order had to be rebuilt as it hadn’t included the free fitting 
discount. It was the original order that Mr W was basing his argument that the discount 
hadn’t been applied but Creation said the order form Mr W had written the corrections on 
had been void due to the second order having then been created.
Creation said that the second order was then built but because the first order had been 
cancelled and this second one was a “re-build” there was no new order form generated. 
The amount of £3,638.98 as set out in the second order and as reflected in the finance 
agreement had included a £390 price deduction for the carpet fitting cost that Mr W would 
need to pay separately. Creation said Mr W would have been aware of this deduction.
Creation provided a copy of the Masterpiece Survey image which it said showed that the 
carpet fitter would need to be paid for the fitting and that Mr W had signed this document. 
It has also provided a copy of the contract’s terms and conditions which set out at 13.2 
that there was a separate agreement with the carpet fitter. Creation said there hadn’t been 
a misrepresentation and there should be no reimbursement of the carpet fitters’ costs 
because this had already been factored into the costings. It said Mr W’s claim under 
section 75 had correctly been declined.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. Due to 
the additional evidence that was provided by Creation I issued a provisional decision along 
the following lines.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer 
has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a fixed sum loan, and 
they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is 
Creation.
My role was to decide whether Creation had acted fairly and reasonably in its response to 
Mr W’s claim under section 75. Creation said it had received evidence from the retailer 
and that it was satisfied there was no breach of contract and that no misrepresentation 
had occurred.
Creation said that Mr W should have been aware that the cost of the carpet fitting 
had already been deducted from the costs of the carpet when reaching the total to 
pay of
£3,638.98.
It was agreed that the retailer was offering a promotion of free carpet fitting when 
carpeting was purchased from it. And because the carpet fitters were sub-contractors and 
therefore subject to a separate agreement then as they would be paid directly by the 
consumer the cost of the fitting would be deducted from the cost of supplying the carpet 
by the retailer. However, Mr W said this arrangement wasn’t made clear to him. He said 
that he was only told he “might/would” have to pay the fitters directly but if he did then 
there would be a reimbursement made to him for that amount. Mr W was adamant he had 
been told the total price he had to pay for the carpets and furniture (including the items 
being delivered and installed) was £3,638.98.
As Mr W had ordered goods and these had been supplied, I couldn’t reasonably say 
there had been a breach of contract, Mr W appeared to have been happy with the 
goods and he hadn’t raised any breaches of the terms and conditions of the agreement 
to supply them.
For me to be satisfied a misrepresentation has occurred I would need evidence that there 
had been a false statement of fact made by the retailer which had induced Mr W to enter 
into the agreement. Mr W said that he’d already received one quote for similar carpets 
from somewhere else but had accepted this one because it had worked out cheaper. I 
think price was therefore an important factor for Mr W and I’d seen that there had been 
discussion between him and retailer about the costs of the carpets.
Creation had produced a number of documents that it was relying on to show this amount 
had been deducted before reaching the overall price for the carpets and furniture of 
£3,638.98.
However, I wasn’t clear which of these documents Mr W had actually seen.
At Mr W’s first visit to the retailer, where he had chosen the carpets, it appeared he had 
been told by the salesperson that he may have to pay the fitters separately, but this figure 
would then be deducted from the costs. I accepted Mr W’s account which had been 
consistent that this was what he had been told. At this visit Mr W had applied for the fixed 
sum loan from Creation though the exact sum to be borrowed needed to be verified by 
having the floor space accurately measured.
The surveyor had then attended Mr W’s property to measure up. I hadn’t seen any 
evidence that Mr W had been left with any paperwork after that visit. Mr W said the 
surveyor hadn’t discussed the carpet fitters or any fee that they may charge. It was agreed 
Mr W had signed a tablet device the surveyor had, though Mr W said this was just to 
confirm the measurements had been accurate.
Looking at the photo of this device that had been supplied by Creation I saw Mr W’s 
signature and that above that it set out the estimate of £4,031.50 and of that figure it said 
£3,541.52 was owed to the stores and £489.98 was “payable to the fitter on the day of 
fitting”. This paragraph was silent as to whether the fitters’ fee had already been deducted 
from the cost of the flooring. I didn’t know if these figures had been discussed with Mr W 
or whether he had been given time to properly look at the estimate. I understood the 
figure of just over £4,000 had been reached because Mr W had also been quoted for 
laminate flooring, which meant the fitter’s fee had been higher. As Mr W wasn’t left with 
anything to read over and check and had needed to return to the shop to make his order, I 
didn’t think I could reasonably say that Mr W’s signature on this device showed he was 
aware that any fitter’s fee had already been deducted from the carpet costs.
Mr W had returned to the store and made his order, he had by then decided not to have 
the laminate fitted and so the figures had needed to be adjusted. Mr W said it had taken 
time for the salesperson at this visit to match the estimate he’d been given. He was aware 
there was an increase to the cost following the measurements being taken. Creation has 
supplied copies of the order though I understood because the first order had been 
cancelled no new order had been generated when this order was then rebuilt.
I appreciated that the orders on the retailer’s system showed that there was a deduction 
for the carpet fitters’ fee, but I still hadn’t seen any evidence this information had been 
provided to Mr W in any invoice or order form. I’d seen an order form created at Mr W’s 
second visit to the store which sets out that the cost of the carpets amounted to £3,769.36 
and this said that the carpet fitters fee of £389.97 hadn’t been added. But again, I hadn’t 
seen any evidence this document had been provided to Mr W or that he had seen it. Mr W 
appeared to only have been provided with the one order form which he had amended and 
sent to the salesperson who confirmed it was correct.
Mr W said although it was suggested he may have to pay the fitters’ fee directly this wasn’t 
entirely clear although he was assured if he made any payment then this amount would be 
deducted from the credit agreement. Creation pointed out that in the terms and conditions 
of the contract to supply the carpet it clearly set out that any agreement with a carpet fitter 
was separate. I didn’t know if these terms and conditions were supplied to Mr W, he hadn’t 
mentioned being provided with them. Looking at term 13 which covered carpet fitting, I 
could see it set out that if a fitter was used via the store then there would be a separate 
contract with them. It also stated that there was a standard tariff applied by the fitters 
which consumers would pay directly to the fitter. However, the carpets chosen by Mr W 
had been advertised as having free fitting so I didn’t think this term was clear as to what 
would be expected to have happened in regard to the fitting fee. I didn’t think this term 
meant I could reasonably say Mr W had been aware he had to make a direct payment to 
the fitter. 
I’d seen a copy of the documentation Mr W said he had been provided with. This was the 
order form that he had hand-amended because the costings shown on it had been wrong. 
Mr W had photographed this document and sent it to the salesperson asking whether his 
calculations as to the cost of the carpets were now correct. The salesperson had 
confirmed that they were. There was no mention either on this form or in the email 
correspondence that Mr W would still be required to pay an additional £390 to the carpet 
fitters. I thought Mr W’s enquiry had been clear that he was asking about the total amount 
he would be paying for the carpets which included the fitting.
I was satisfied there had been a misrepresentation made to Mr W as to the cost of the 
carpets by the retailer. I thought Mr W had been consistent in what he said had happened 
and that he had been assured there would be nothing more to pay on top of the 
£3,638.98. I’d seen he’d raised his complaint quickly after paying the fee to the carpet 
fitters. I thought the salesperson appeared to have been confused over the calculation of 
the costs of the carpet and the inclusion/deduction of any carpet fitting fee and that they 
had misled Mr W as to the final overall costs of having the carpet supplied and fitted. I 
hadn’t seen any evidence that Mr W had been shown a copy of an order form that clearly 
set out the fitters’ cost had been deducted from the cost of the carpet. He had relied on 
what he’d been told by the salesperson.
So, I intended to uphold Mr W’s complaint and I’m asked Creation to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
I also thought that Creation hadn’t dealt with Mr W’s section 75 claim in a timely manner 
and had lacked communication with him. For that I thought it was fair that Creation pay 
Mr W £75 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this would have 
caused him.
Both Mr W and Creation have accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have been asked to review my provisional decision I have still looked again at the 
evidence and my conclusions and I haven’t changed my view. I’m still satisfied that the costs 
of the carpet and fitting were misled to Mr W and this information had induced him into 
entering the contract for their supply. So, I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint.
Putting things right
I’m asking Creation to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mr W £75 compensation for the delays and lack of communication 
in the handling of his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mr W £75 compensation for the delays and lack of communication 
in the handling of his section 75 claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
