DRN-3631381
The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision taken by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) to 
charge interest at the end of a buy now pay later period on a fixed sum loan agreement 
(“loan”) she had entered into.
What happened
On 27 June 2020 Ms K took out a loan with Creation for a purchase she had made. The sum 
borrowed was £2,615.00.
The loan was provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant if Ms K repaid the loan in 
full before 26 September 2021 then she wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Otherwise, 
interest would be payable.
Ms K didn’t repay the loan in full before 26 September 2021. Therefore, Creation added 
interest of £2,065.00 bringing the total sum repayable under the loan to £4,680.00 –  
repayable (everything else being equal) by 60 monthly payments of £78.00.
On 5 October 2021 Ms K paid Creation £2,615.00, reducing the sum repayable under the 
loan to £2,065.00.
On 11 October 2021 Ms K paid Creation £595.66. This, together with an interest adjustment 
of £1,469.34 for ‘early’ settlement, reduced the sum repayable under the loan to £nil. 
Ms K says she tried to repay Creation £2,615.00 on more than one occasion before 
26 September 2021 via her online (Creation) account but, through no fault of her own, she 
was unable to.
Ms K complained to Creation about what had happened. However, Creation said it was 
satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in its management and administration of the loan 
and it would be making no refund to Ms K.
Ms K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator didn’t uphold Ms K’s complaint and explained why.
Ms K didn’t accept the investigator’s findings and asked that an ombudsman review the
complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear Ms K has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their
entirety. However, I trust that Ms K will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Creation says it sent Ms K two letters, one on 26 March 2020 and one on 26 August 2020, 
reminding her when her buy now pay later period would end. If my understanding is correct 
Ms K says she didn’t receive these. But non-receipt of these letters isn’t material to my 
consideration of this complaint because Ms K doesn’t dispute she was aware of the buy now 
pay later period end date.
I don’t dispute that Ms K may have tried to pay Creation £2,065.00 on 2, 7 and 
9 September 2020 via her online (Creation) account and was unable to do so. But equally I 
can see that on 9 September 2020 Creation emailed Ms K to explain that she could pay by 
other methods, including by credit/debit card (online or by phone) and by standing order or 
bank transfer (from her bank account).
Ms K has provided our service with the reasons as to why she didn’t pay Creation before 
26 September 2020 by other methods, reasons I’ve considered very carefully. But having 
done so, I’m not persuaded these are sufficient for me to find that Creation should have to 
refund her the interest she ultimately ended up paying of £595.66, or any other sum by way 
of compensation.
Regardless of the difficulties Ms K might have experienced in trying to pay Creation via her 
online (Creation) account and regardless of the difficulties she might have experienced in 
trying to contact Creation by telephone, she had been advised in good time (two weeks) of 
other payment methods available to her and it was her choice not to use any of them.
I appreciate Ms K will be disappointed but given what I say above I find that in the particular 
circumstances of this case Creation (in its management and administration of the loan) did 
nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
