DRN-2573419
The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasn’t provided with the service he should have been when he 
contacted Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) about issues following the return of a car 
he had acquired under a fixed term loan agreement.
What happened
Mr B returned the car he acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement with CCF in 2010. He 
says that he tried to contact CCF about the issues he had experienced since returning the 
car but he didn’t receive the service he should have and didn’t receive call backs when 
requested.
CCF says that the emails Mr B sent in April 2018 but CCF weren’t sent to a customer 
services inbox. In 2019, Mr B sent further emails to CCF which CCF says it responded to 
within the required timeframe.
Our investigator didn’t uphold this complaint. She saw that CCF had replied to the emails 
Mr B sent in 2019 in a timely way.
Mr B didn’t accept our investigator’s view.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised a complaint about the information and service he was provided with when he 
handed back his car in 2010. This part of his complaint is being dealt with separately. This 
decision relates to Mr B’s complaint that he wasn’t provided with the service he should have 
been when trying to discuss the issues with CCF in 2018 and 2019.
I have looked at the emails provided. The emails sent in April 2018 weren’t sent to CCF’s 
customer services email address. Based on what I have seen Mr B followed up on these 
emails in October 2019 at which time his question was directed to the correct email address 
and email correspondence took place between Mr B and CCF. Having looked at the emails 
from this time I find that CCF did respond in a timely way. I can see there were issues with 
CCF calling Mr B both with getting a correct contact number and then with the times of the 
calls. However, I can see that CCF did attempt to make call backs to Mr B and, overall, I find 
it did try to respond to Mr B’s requests in a timely way.
Overall, based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say CCF did 
anything wrong and so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
