DRN-4876243
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd registered a missed payment marker 
on her credit file in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out what had happened and what I thought about the 
complaint. I’ve copied the relevant parts of that decision below – and they form part of this 
final decision.
Mrs N took out a loan agreement in April 2022 with a repayment term of 12 months. 
Repayments of £80.82 were made on the 19th of each month via direct debit. On 23 August 
2022, the direct debit for that month was returned due to insufficient funds. A late payment 
fee of £30 was charged, and a payment was made to clear the arrears on 5 September 
2022.
In July 2023, Mrs N discovered that a missed payment marker had been registered on her 
credit file as a result of the August 2022 payment being returned. She contacted Creation to 
query this. She said she called Creation to warn it that the payment would be returned, and 
offered to make the payment manually over the phone. She recalled being told that she 
didn’t need to take any further action.
Creation responded and said the missed payment marker was correct, as the scheduled 
payment was missed and not paid for a further two weeks. Unhappy with this response, Mrs 
N raised a formal complaint. Creation responded to the complaint in October 2023. It agreed 
that Mrs N had called in August 2022 – but was unable to listen to the call recording as they 
were only held for 12 months. It said that Mrs N’s account had fallen into arrears – and that it 
was correct for this to be reflected on her credit file.
Because Mrs N didn’t agree, she referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. They said Mrs N made Creation aware 
of her concerns in July 2023 – within 12 months of her call – and that it could have obtained 
a recording had it looked into the matter at the time. On that basis they thought Mrs N likely 
offered to make a payment on the phone – so it wouldn’t therefore be fair to charge a late 
payment fee or record adverse information. They recommended removing the missed 
payment marker and refunding the £30 charge.
Mrs N accepted the Investigator’s conclusions, but Creation didn’t. It said it had provided 
evidence to show the payment wasn’t made on time – so didn’t agree to amend Mrs N’s 
credit file or refund the charge. It asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint – so 
it’s been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate it would have been upsetting for Mrs N to discover that her credit file had been 
impacted by the missed payment – especially as she feels she took reasonable steps to 
make sure the payment was made on time. Lenders have a responsibility to report accurate 
information about how customers manage their borrowing. It’s not in dispute that Mrs N’s 
direct debit was returned as unpaid – so the payment wasn’t made on the day it was due. 
I’ve considered whether this was due to an error on Creation’s part.
Both parties agree that a call took place on 19 August 2022 – and that Mrs N told Creation 
she expected the payment to be returned. Mrs N says this is because she hadn’t moved her 
funds in time to meet her bank’s deadline for the payment to be taken. She recalls offering to 
make the payment manually over the phone – but was told she didn’t need to, and that 
Creation would make a further attempt to collect the funds. She says she was under the 
impression she didn’t need to take any further action. Creation has no record of this being 
said – just that Mrs N was told to wait and see if the payment would be returned - as it hadn’t 
been at the time that she called.
Mrs N raised her concerns with Creation in July 2023 – around 11 months after the call took 
place. Creation says it only holds call recordings for 12 months, so the recording is no longer 
available. I can appreciate Mrs N’s frustration here – as the call might have been available 
had Creation investigated her concerns when she originally raised them. Where evidence is 
missing, incomplete or contradictory – as it is in this case – I need to consider what more 
likely than not happened based on the information that is available.
Creation has provided an extract from its system notes, which contains a brief note taken at 
the time of the call:
“CUST SAID DD MAY COME BACK UNPAI (…) ADVISED DD NNOT COME BACK 
UNPAIND ALOW UNTIL NEXT WEEK AND CALL BCK”
Although the note is very brief, it’s a contemporaneous record of what was said during the 
call. While Mrs N’s version of events is slightly different, I need to consider that memories 
can fade with time, and that the call took place nearly a year before she had reason to query 
it. That’s not to say I doubt what Mrs N has said – but that I need to decide what’s more 
likely than not based on the available evidence.
I’ve considered the possibility that the call note doesn’t contain everything that was 
discussed. Mrs N’s phone records show that the call lasted just over six minutes – but that 
doesn’t necessarily mean the conversation lasted that long. Mrs N would likely have been on 
hold for at least some of the call’s duration. The call note is brief, which I think suggests the 
conversation wasn’t a long one.
The call took place on 19 August 2022, which was a Friday – but the payment wasn’t 
returned to Mrs N’s bank until the following Tuesday. So at the time of the call, as far as 
Creation was concerned the payment had been made successfully. Although Mrs N said it 
may be returned, it hadn’t been at the time. This is reflected in Creation’s call note – where it 
says the payment hasn’t yet come back as unpaid. Because Creation had already received 
the funds due, I wouldn’t expect it to take a manual payment over the phone. Had the 
payment not then been returned, this would have resulted in an overpayment.
The call note says Mrs N was asked to wait and see if the payment was returned and call 
back the following week. As the payment hadn’t been returned at the time, I think it’s 
reasonable this would have been agreed as a next step. I can’t see that Mrs N contacted 
Creation again to follow this up after the payment was returned.
Creation has provided records to show it sent Mrs N two letters after the payment was 
returned – on 25 August 2022 and 1 September 2022. It’s provided examples to show what 
those letters would have said. The first notified Mrs N that her account was in arrears and 
that it had applied a £30 charge. It asked her to get in touch either online or over the phone 
to make the outstanding payment. The second letter asked Mrs N to make the payment 
within seven days to avoid a default sum being added to her agreement.
A payment was made to clear the arrears on 5 September 2022. Mrs N recalls that this 
payment was taken by Creation via direct debit as agreed on the phone. Creation says the 
payment was made manually by Mrs N via an online link. Based on the payment codes 
included in its account statements, I’m satisfied the payment was made manually rather than 
via direct debit. This seems consistent with Mrs N having received one or both of the letters 
from Creation and following the instructions in them.
Although Mrs N called Creation to warn it that the payment would be returned, the notes 
don’t reflect what she remembers of the call. The notes show she was asked to get back in 
touch ‘next week’, but she didn’t call again after the account fell into arrears. While the 
payment was made, this was more than two weeks after it was originally due. And I don’t 
think it’s likely on balance that Mrs N was told she didn’t have to take any further action, or 
that her account and credit file wouldn’t be impacted if the payment wasn’t made when it was 
due.
On that basis, I don’t think Creation has acted unfairly by recording a missed payment – as 
the payment wasn’t made when it was due. I don’t find that the payment was missed due to 
Creation’s error – so it was entitled to apply a fee in line with the terms of the agreement. For 
these reasons, I don’t intend to uphold the complaint – and this means I don’t plan to tell 
Creation to remove the missed payment marker from Mrs N’s credit file, or refund the £30 
charge.
Responses to my provisional decision
Creation said it accepted my provisional decision. Mrs N also said she accepted my 
provisional decision. She commented that she recalls her conversation with Creation very 
clearly and remembered writing a note of it – but she doesn’t recall what happened after that 
conversation took place. She says she accepts that from Creation’s perspective the payment 
was still in their system when she called – so can understand how my outcome is fair. 
Overall, Mrs N said she accepts the outcome I reached.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs N says she clearly recalls her conversation with Creation – and I don’t 
disregard her testimony around this. But I’ve considered what’s more likely than not – taking 
all of the available evidence into consideration. Considering the contents of Creation’s call 
note outlined above, as well as the fact that the payment hadn’t been returned at the time of 
the call, I’m satisfied Creation more likely than not asked Mrs N to wait and see if the 
payment was returned and call back the following week. 
This didn’t happen – and the payment ultimately wasn’t made when it was due. So for the 
reasons I’ve explained above, I think Creation was entitled to apply a charge in line with the 
terms of the agreement and report details of the payment to credit reference agencies.
Both parties accepted the outcome I reached. So, I’ve seen no reason to change my 
decision that Creation does not need to remove the late payment marker from Mrs N’s credit 
file or refund the £30 late payment charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2024.
 
Stephen Billings
Ombudsman
