DRN-3773413
The complaint
Miss R complains about adverse information recorded on her credit file by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
Miss R entered into a finance agreement with Creation in August 2021, with the first monthly 
payment due to be collected by direct debit (DD) from her bank – which I’ll refer to as T – the 
following month. That payment and the one for October 2021 were received by Creation.
When the payment for November 2021 was missed, Creation wrote to Miss R to say it would 
re-apply for the payment within seven days. Payments resumed until there were further 
missed payments by February 2022. Creation wrote to Miss again that month, as it had in 
November 2021. It wrote to her again in April and May 2021 to notify her, among other 
things, that payments were still overdue and needed to be made. 
Miss R and Creation subsequently entered into a temporary arrangement for ten months to 
enable her to bring the account up to date. 
Miss R raised a complaint, saying Creation’s actions had negatively impacted on her credit 
file causing her worry and, potentially, financial loss. Creation investigated Mr R’s complaint 
but didn’t uphold it. It believed it had attempted to collect payments as per the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement and as per the DD details Miss R had provided when 
entering into it. Creation also felt it had given her adequate notice of issues with the DD and 
given her sufficient opportunity to resolve the matter with T.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didn’t recommend that it should be upheld. They 
felt Creation had been entitled to notify the credit reference agencies about the payment 
issues as it had done. The investigator didn’t think Creation could have told Miss R about the 
missed payments any sooner than it had.
Because Miss R wasn’t prepared to accept the investigator’s findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss R wants answers to certain questions she’s raised. Although I’ve 
considered them, I’m not required to respond to them all in setting out this decision and I’ve 
not attempted to do so. Nor have I made direct findings on the actions of T, which is a 
different financial business to Creation. Instead, I’ve focussed on addressing the key issues 
that go to the heart of the complaint about Creation. 
Having done so, I’ve decided to not uphold this complaint. I’ll explain why.
It’s not in dispute that the payment for November 2021 failed. Miss R accepts she received 
Creation’s letter of that month telling her this. As a result, she was able to bring the account 
up to date which is how it remained for the next couple of months.
There’s some uncertainty as to how the initial DDs were collected given, among other things, 
Miss R’s bank has confirmed it doesn’t accept instructions to pay DDs from the account she 
held. I can’t say for sure how that happened either. That might be something for Miss R to 
take up with T. Although I’m satisfied Creation was entitled to use the bank details Miss R 
provided when she entered into the finance agreement. I think it was reasonable for it to 
have done so in the circumstances.
Miss R didn’t hear from Creation about any account arrears again until February 2022. Its 
first letter indicated her DD had failed. A further letter sent the next day said she’d missed 
payments from December 2021 and January 2022. 
In March 2022 Creation told Miss R that T had informed it that the DD set up for the finance 
agreement had been cancelled. Creation told Miss R that it was a requirement of the 
agreement that a DD was in place and that one needed to be set up without delay to avoid 
missed or late payment fees. Chaser letters were sent to Miss R in April and early May 2022.  
By mid-May 2022 Creation and Miss R had agreed to enter into a temporary arrangement for 
ten months to enable her to bring the account up to date.  
Miss R’s queried whether she did in fact miss any payments as stated by Creation. Having 
carefully reviewed the information provided by both parties, I’ve concluded that she did. For 
example, the list of account transactions show payments being collected in September and 
October 2021. They also show DD reversals in November 2021 – payment for which Miss R 
subsequently made by debit card – and further DD reversals in February 2022. 
I think some of the confusion’s arisen from Creation not being informed by T of issues with 
Miss R’s DD until February 2022. Some of the issues dated back to December 2021 and 
only came to light to Creation two months later. I can’t be sure of the reasons for the delay 
but I can’t see that Creation was made aware of any problems until just before it contacted 
Miss R in February 2022. So, I don’t think Creation was responsible for the missed payments 
or that it was at fault for any delay in making Miss R aware.
Arguably Creation could have explained things to Miss R more clearly than it did, but I don’t 
think it caused the issue in the first place or led her to the position she found herself in. And 
I’m glad to see that agreement was reached by the parties as to how to bring the account 
back up to date. 
So, taking everything into account, I believe Creation acted fairly by recording the missed 
payments on Miss R’s credit file as it did. I’m sorry for the problems this might have caused 
Miss R, but I don’t consider that Creation must do anything to put things right for her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I’ve decided to not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
