 
 
DRN-5154259 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr G has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr G throughout.  
What happened 
In February 2014 Mr G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£5,995 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £9,299.92 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £77.49. There was interest of £3,304.92.  
In July 2021 Mr G sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said S told him he’d effectively be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that he’d have reduced energy 
bills. He said S told him the panels were maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy. He 
said S sold the system as though it would pay for itself. He said the system was 
misrepresented and believed the statements and several other actions at the time of the sale 
created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr G decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in November 2021. He highlighted S told him the system would be self-funding 
within the loan term, which he said was false.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr G the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought S 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr G 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mr G pays no more than that, and he keeps 
the system. She also recommended £200 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
Creation didn’t agree. In summary it said: 
• 
The complaint was brought more than six years after the events complained of, so 
outside the time limits which apply to the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman. 
• 
Mr G’s allegations of an unfair relationship don’t relate to any events post-dating the 
sale of the system in February 2014.  
 
 
• 
The end of a credit relationship may be the starting point for limitation purposes in 
civil litigation, but it isn’t the starting point for the six-year period under DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a), where the unfair relationship itself would not constitute an event. It is 
the event(s) giving rise to an unfair relationship which are the “events complained of” 
for the purposes of that rule.  
• 
Mr G had not brought a complaint about Creation’s handing of his section 75 claim 
and it did not issue a final response letter in relation to one.  
• 
The investigator conflates the jurisdiction rules on the Financial Ombudsman’s time 
limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) and DISP 2.8.2R(1). It 
considers the approach allows any complainant to bring an otherwise time-barred 
claim in time by complaining about the decision not to uphold the complaint.  
• 
There’s no evidence the representations set out in the letter of claim were 
misrepresentations.  
• 
The loan documentation and sales documentation were clear on the cost and benefit 
of the system.  
• 
Mr G made his complaint seven years after installation.   
• 
Without prejudice to its position on jurisdiction it considers the approach to redress 
should be in accordance with the court decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought the complaint was within our 
jurisdiction. I can’t see we’ve received any submissions from the parties for why that’s not 
right, so I’m not going to set it out again. For the merits of the complaint, my provisional 
decision said: 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr G.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
 
What happened? 
Mr G says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr G says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr G to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
Mr G has supplied documentation he was given at the point of sale. He’s sent a certification 
of roof structure and stability; a quote; an installation pack; an order form; a commissioning 
confirmation; MCS certificate; an EPC; a welcome pack; and a form with the estimated 
benefits of the system. I’ve looked closely at the documents that I think might’ve helped Mr G 
compare the costs and benefits of the system.  
On the one hand, I can see Mr G signed a satisfaction note. Although I note this was signed 
after he’d signed the fixed sum loan agreement. It looks like it was signed around the time 
the system was installed. The form sets out the system was predicted to perform at around 
2,500kWh annually. It said: 
Expected generation tariff 
 
£386.02 
Expected export tariff  
 
£59.74 
Combined total income 
 
£445.75 
Savings from electricity used  
£234.34 
Estimated 1st year savings 
 
£680.11  
On the other hand, Mr G has also supplied a copy of a form setting out the estimated 
benefits. This form sets out: 
Summary of 1st year figures  
£680 
Lifetime electricity bills savings  
£11,166 
Total tariff rate income 
 
£14,084 
This form sets out the payback time was 8 years, which is supported by a graph. And the 
lifetime benefit was £25,249.56.  
Neither of the forms set out details of the interest Mr G was required to pay under the fixed 
sum loan agreement. I’m conscious the estimated benefits form says it was an 8-year 
payback time – although as I’ve said, the form didn’t have the interest included. But even 
with interest being applied and Mr G being asked to pay back around £9,300 in total, given 
the estimated lifetime benefit was over £25,000, I can understand why he felt the system 
would be self-funding within the loan term. And even though the first-year annual saving 
estimate of around £680 wouldn’t have covered the annual loan repayment of around £900, 
I’m mindful the estimated savings would have been expected to grow year on year, in line 
with the information on the graph. I think it should have been made much clearer the 
payback time was not applicable if the system was paid for using a finance agreement. The 
figures matched what was set out on the satisfaction note document, so I don’t think this 
would have necessarily alerted Mr G to there being an issue. I think it should have been 
made clearer to Mr G that the system wouldn’t have been self-funding within the loan term, 
with the interest that was applied.  
 
 
I’ve also looked at S’s website from around the time Mr G bought the system. I can see it 
sets out details about solar panels that pay for themselves and gives details of the type of 
investment solar panels offer. There’s also a section on solar finance that sets out plans 
were offered where the FIT and bill savings can contribute to the monthly instalments.  
I think it follows that if the website from around the time emphasises the benefits of a solar 
panel system and how they can contribute to repaying finance agreements this was likely a 
central part of the conversation between S and Mr G. I think this also supports Mr G’s 
testimony that if he bought the system with finance it would pay for itself.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £900 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr G achieved the 
benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the agreement, even 
though it seems as though the system is performing slightly higher than was estimated. I 
therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. I think the salesperson 
ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement.  
Considering Mr G’s account about what he was told, the documentation; and the information 
on S’s website, I think it likely S gave Mr G a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the system.  
 
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr G was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr G went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr G’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr G in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr G 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr G and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr G a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr G’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr G received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr G received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr G 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
Creation has highlighted the court’s decision in Hodgson. 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar 
panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such 
that fair compensation should be based on Mr G’s expectation of what he would receive. I 
consider Mr G has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to 
the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels. 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr G. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of any of the other claims raised by Mr G. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a 
fair outcome in the circumstances.   
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr G’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr G some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what 
I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr G £100. 
 
Mr G accepted the decision. I can’t see we received a response from Creation.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Seeing as though I can’t see I’ve been provided anything new to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr G’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr G has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr G’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr G should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr G 
• 
Pay Mr G £100 compensation 
 
*Where Mr G is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
