DRN-3076224
The complaint
Ms F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to her the cost of an 
airwrap that has incorrectly been charged to her credit plan.
What happened
Ms F ordered an airwrap and an air purifier from a retailer in December 2020 at a total cost 
of £1,003 that was charged to her flexible credit plan with Creation Consumer Finance. She 
cancelled the order for the airwrap and an air purifier was delivered to her the next day. She 
expected the cost of the airwrap, which was £449, to be credited to her plan but the retailer 
says that it had sent her a second air purifier by mistake and that two air purifiers had been 
delivered to Ms F.
When the £449 hadn’t been credited to her plan, Ms F contacted the retailer and it said that 
she could either keep the second air purifier and it would charge £100 to her account or she 
could return it and it would credit £449 to her plan. Ms F said that she hadn’t received two air 
purifiers but the retailer provided two tracking numbers and a photograph taken by the 
delivery company to show that two air purifiers had been delivered to her.
Ms F wasn’t satisfied with that response so she complained to this service and she said that 
the second air purifier shown in the photo belonged to a friend and she had borrowed it to 
see if it was suitable. She provided a copy of a receipt which she says was for her friend’s 
purchase of an air purifier.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that Ms F’s complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the retailer had provided enough evidence to show that two air purifiers were 
delivered to Ms F on the same day and that payment for both needed to remain on Ms F’s 
credit plan. 
Ms F has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Ms F paid for the goods using a credit plan with Creation Consumer Finance so her 
complaint to this service is about the way that it has dealt with her credit plan and she 
has an equal right to claim against the retailer or Creation Consumer Finance for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer;

in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;

the retailer has provided two tracking numbers and a photograph taken by the 
delivery company to show that two air purifiers had been delivered to Ms F;

Ms F says that she didn’t receive two air purifiers from the retailer and that the 
second air purifier shown in the photo belonged to a friend and she had borrowed it 
to see if it was suitable;

she’s provided a copy of a receipt which she says was for her friend’s purchase of an 
air purifier – but that receipt is from an IT services company and I’ve seen nothing on 
its website to show that its business includes selling air purifiers;

I consider it to be more likely than not that Ms F received two air purifiers from the 
retailer and I’m not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for it to require her 
to return one of the air purifiers before it credited the £449 for the air wrap to her 
plan;

the retailer has clearly made errors in dealing with Ms F’s order – it sent her a second 
air purifier that she hadn’t ordered and I don’t consider that the explanations that it’s 
given to Ms F have been as clear as they should have been – but I’m not persuaded 
that those errors are enough to justify an award of compensation by Creation 
Consumer Finance to Ms F in these circumstances; and

I sympathise with Ms F for the issues that those errors have caused her, but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance 
has acted incorrectly or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to credit 
£449 to Ms F’s plan, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Ms F’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
