 
 
DRN-5340734 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs D complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) responded to 
claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged unfair 
relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the “CCA”). Mrs D’s claims were in relation to solar panels that she had bought and were 
paid for through a loan with Creation.  
Mrs D is represented in her complaint by a third party but for ease I have referred to all 
submissions from Mrs D and the third party as if made by Mrs D. 
What happened 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings were set out in my provisional 
decision of 10 February 2025. In that decision I set out the following: 
In March 2015 Mrs D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The loan was 
for a solar panel system which cost £17,966. The loan was to be repaid by regular 
instalments of £227.53 over the 120 month term. Although the amount borrowed was 
£17,966, with interest and charges the total amount repayable under the loan was 
£27,804.07.  
Mrs D complains that the solar panel system was missold as she was told the solar panels 
would essentially pay for themselves as the electricity savings from the system and the 
income generated from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments would more than cover the cost of 
the loan repayments.  
Creation responded to Mrs D’s claim and explained why in its view that Mrs D’s claim had 
been submitted too late. Mrs D remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service, 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Mrs D’s claim had not 
been submitted too late and when looking at the evidence provided, that Mrs D was misled 
about the potential benefits of the solar panel system.  
They set out what they considered to be fair redress to put things right. Mrs D accepted the 
investigator’s conclusions but as we received no response from Creation about this 
complaint, it was passed to me so that a final decision can be issued as the last stage in our 
process. 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mrs 
D has complained about the misrepresentations made by the solar panels supplier have 
created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A CCA.  
 
 
Mrs D is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between herself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with her. 
This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc [2023] UKSC 34. S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same 
way as s.75. Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and 
debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor 
exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done 
by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or 
any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. The 
High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the 
determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. 
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a 
creditor should conduct its relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective 
measures. In particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to 
expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. 
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether such 
an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the relationship 
ended. In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The 
question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, 
whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. 
That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to 
that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship. In Mrs D’s case the relationship was ongoing when she 
referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible 
for the matters which made its relationship with Mrs D unfair and for taking steps to remove 
the source of that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no 
longer unfair. By relying in her complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between 
herself and Creation, Mrs D therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the 
time she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mrs D’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the solar panels 
supplier can be considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. In 
Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. 
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming 
the solar panels supplier to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Taking 
this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me to 
consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by the solar panels supplier for which Creation was responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
D. But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.  
What happened?  
Mrs D says she was told that the solar panels system would effectively pay for itself within 
the loan term. So I’ve taken account of what Mrs D says she was told at the time of 
arranging the solar panel system. I’ve also reviewed the somewhat limited documentation 
that has been presented to me in this case. 
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs D to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the loan agreement. Apart from the loan agreement referring to solar PV 
panels under the goods section, there is no reference to any of the estimated benefits of the 
solar panel system.  
Mrs D has provided a copy of a document she was given at the time by the supplier of solar 
panels system, which is headed ‘CONTRACT’. This refers to several things, including a 
section headed ‘INCOME AND SAVINGS’. This refers to the feed in and export tariffs, and 
energy used and indicates a ‘Total Annual Savings’ of £2,475.45. It also refers to a ‘Pay 
back year’ as seven.  
Page 4 of the documents also refers to the same total annual savings figure of £2,475.45, 
along with a graph showing the benefits received over a 20 year term. The graph appears to 
illustrate the cost of the system and the benefits will equal the cost around year seven.  
This document supports what Mrs D says about being told that the system would essentially 
pay for itself and looking at the details, this appears to indicate the benefits would equal the 
cost of the system around year seven.  
Although the document indicates the system is to be paid for by finance, there is no 
reference to the additional costs associated with paying for the system with finance. The cost 
of credit on the Creation loan was over £10,000 and there is no reference to how this will 
impact the likely point the benefits of the solar panels would equal the overall cost of the 
system when including the interest and charges. It would not in my view have been possible 
to have established from this document whether or not the solar panel system would have 
actually generated enough in savings and returns to have more than covered the loan 
repayment costs to Creation. 
In the complaint submissions there is no reference from Mrs D about the benefits being 
 
 
equal to the loan costs over a period of seven years, but I’m satisfied on balance that Mrs D 
was likely told the benefits would cover the costs of the loan over the ten year period of the 
loan.  
Mrs D says she was told the cost of the loan would be covered by the savings and amounts 
generated by the solar panels system. It is clear from what Mrs D has said that this was a 
key factor in her decision to buy the solar panels system. I note the solar panel system here 
appears to be a large system and this is likely because of the property, including additional 
outbuildings, that required electricity. I can understand why Mrs D would have been looking 
to reduce her electricity costs and could therefore benefit from the solar panel system.  
It would in my view be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mrs D would have 
agreed to install a solar panel system if her monthly outgoings would increase significantly 
by the amount she was required to pay through the loan repayments.  
I’m required to decide the case quickly and with minimum formality and I need to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As I have already set out above, where 
the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. On balance, I find Mrs D’s 
account to be plausible and convincing. For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need 
to produce combined savings of around £2,731 per year. 
I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mrs D would achieve the benefits required to make the 
system self-funding within the ten-year loan term. I therefore find the statements that were 
likely made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t true and misleading. I think 
the salesperson of the solar panels system ought to have known this and made it clear to 
Mrs D that the solar panels system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the 
overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement within the term.  
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely the supplier of the solar panels 
system gave Mrs D a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar 
panels system. I consider this misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the 
transaction for the system, namely the benefits which Mrs D was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that the assurances in this regard likely 
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panels system would have the capacity to 
fund the loan repayments. But even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless 
represented the basis upon which Mrs D went into the transaction. Either way, on balance, I 
think the solar panels system supplier’s assurances were misleading and false, undermining 
the purpose of the transaction from Mrs D’s point of view. 
Fair compensation  
As I’ve found that Mrs D was misled into entering into the solar panels system and taking out 
the loan, I will now consider what is required as fair compensation to Mrs D. In all the 
circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the unfairness of Mrs 
D and Creation’s relationship arising out of the solar panels supplier’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panels system.  
Creation should repay Mrs D a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably 
have expected as a result of the solar panels supplier’s assurances. That is, that Mrs D’s 
loan repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits she received for the 
duration of the loan agreement. 
Although Creation hasn’t specifically argued it in this case, I have had regard to the court’s 
 
 
decision in Hodgson. I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade 
me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation.  
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I 
am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should 
be based on Mrs D’s expectation of what she would receive. 
I consider Mrs D has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in her relationship with Creation, 
to the extent that her loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels. 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs D. Creation 
should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or direction 
(or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court would award 
or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is 
intended to be fair, quick, and informal.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the credit agreement based 
on the known and/or assumed savings and income Mrs D received from the solar panels 
system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think 
it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs D received by way of FIT payments as well as 
through energy savings.  
Mrs D will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I’m intending to uphold this complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:  
• Calculate the total payments Mrs D has made towards the solar panel system – A  
• Use Mrs D’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the start 
date of the loan, up until the date of settlement – B  
• Use B to recalculate what Mrs D should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and what she 
should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement* – C  
• Reimburse C to Mrs D 
*If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mrs D a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate 
Mrs D responded to my provisional decision to say that she accepts its findings. Creation 
said it agreed with the decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
 
 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Considering both Mrs D and Creation now accept or agree with my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings set out that decision and referred to above. I have 
therefore come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional decision, for 
what are the same reasons.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs D’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct Creation to settle the complaint in line with what I have set out above and in my 
provisional decision of 10 February 2025.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2025. 
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
