DRN-2979051
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t compensate him for what he
believes are defective goods he bought with a loan Creation provided.
Mr H is assisted in his complaint by Mrs H. For ease of reading I’ve described actions taken
by either of them as being taken by Mr H.  
What happened
In November 2017 Mr H took out an interest-free loan with Creation to buy a pair of leather 
reclining sofas and a carpet from a retailer, which I’ll call S. S delivered the furniture towards 
the end of February 2018.
A couple of weeks later Mr H contacted S to say that the recliner handles on the sofas were 
loose, expressing concern that this was a danger to his baby daughter. S arranged for an 
adjustment to be made to the handles, though Mr H says he remained unhappy with the 
situation. Shortly after this, Mr H told S he was dissatisfied with marks that were appearing 
on the seats of the furniture. S sent a technician to inspect the marks. He concluded the 
marks were surface problems rather than a manufacturing defect. The technician cleaned 
the marks using leather and solvent cleaners.
In October 2019 Mr H contacted S again, to report further problems with marking on the 
sofas. Again this was on the seat cushions, but this time he also reported marks and flecking 
on the headrests. S undertook an inspection, for which Mr H paid £70, concluding that the 
marks on the seat cushions were due to accidental damage, and that the marks on the 
headrests were down to “contamination of head oils”.
Mr H disputed S’s conclusions. He said the sofas had been well cared for and cleaned 
regularly. He didn’t think the furniture was of satisfactory quality and contacted Creation to 
seek a refund after this was rejected by S. Mr H also mentioned that his daughter had 
recently been injured by the furniture fittings and questioned the safety of the sofas given his 
young children.
Creation also rejected Mr H’s claim. In doing so, it cited the conclusions in the earlier reports 
S had obtained, and said that S had told it the issues were matters of wear and tear. 
Creation told Mr H that to consider the matter further he would need to demonstrate the 
furniture was inherently faulty at the point of supply. This would mean Mr H obtaining an 
independent report at his own expense, which he subsequently did, paying £130.
In the meantime, a third party alternative dispute resolution scheme (“A”) considered Mr H’s 
claim against S. A didn’t uphold Mr H’s claim, saying that he hadn’t demonstrated the 
problems with the sofas were due to a manufacturer defect. Creation has referenced A’s 
February 2020 report in its submissions to us.
Mr H’s inspection was carried out by a third party (“B”) in July 2020. B concluded that the 
work carried out on the recliner handles was an inadequate repair, and that the remaining 
gap was a potential hazard. B also considered the problems with the sofa finish were likely 
due to pre-delivery issues, and that this pointed towards a failure to meet the test of 
durability. B didn’t think the issues with the sofa were capable of repair.
Our investigator thought Creation should compensate Mr H. He said the problems with the 
finish and the recliner handles suggested the furniture wasn’t of satisfactory quality, as 
indicated by B’s report. The investigator proposed that Creation refund Mr H’s costs from the 
inspections he’d paid for, along with interest. He thought Creation should pay Mr H 
compensation for the inconvenience and upset experienced in dealing with matters, which 
the investigator assessed at £200. And the investigator suggested Creation terminate the 
loan agreement with nothing further for Mr H to pay, as well as refund half the payments 
Mr H had made to reflect that he’d had some use of the furniture.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigator’s conclusions and proposed outcome. He didn’t 
think it properly reflected the timeline of events or the way in which Creation had handled 
matters. Creation also didn’t agree with the recommendation. It said it considered the earlier 
reviews confirmed there were no faults, expressing the view that they were more credible 
sources than B’s report.
As neither party has accepted the proposed outcome, the matter was passed to me for 
review.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how best I thought matters should be resolved. In my provisional 
findings I said:
“Although neither party has sought to question Creation’s potential liability here, for 
completeness I should set out how that potential liability has arisen. Creation gave a 
loan to Mr H to buy the sofas. The loan in question is regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (“CCA1974”). One effect of section 75 of CCA1974 is that, where an 
individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided under pre-existing 
arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that individual can bring a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he 
could against the supplier.
The supplier here was S and Creation was the lender. Mr H has a claim for breach of 
contract against S, and therefore can bring the same claim against Creation, as he 
has sought to do. Mr H was unhappy with Creation’s response to that claim and 
complained about it. He then referred that complaint to us.
In order to decide whether Creation has dealt fairly with Mr H, I have to think about 
his underlying claim for breach of contract against S. Mr H’s contract with S 
incorporates provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA2015”), meaning it is 
to be read as including a term that the sofas would be of satisfactory quality. That, as 
B’s report noted, includes such matters as durability. Durability means the goods 
must be sufficiently durable, that is, they should be made to last a reasonable period 
of time. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances.
I’m conscious that another dispute resolution body, A, has already looked at whether 
the furniture was of satisfactory quality, albeit in the context of a claim against S 
rather than against Creation. I don’t consider that prevents me from taking a view on 
that matter, or that I am bound to share A’s conclusions. A’s report is not binding on 
Mr H. Further, it clearly states that it is based on the available evidence, and that Mr 
H hadn’t satisfied the burden of proof it required of him to demonstrate his claim. The 
available evidence didn’t include the report Mr H commissioned from B, which he 
didn’t obtain until a few months later.
I don’t share Creation’s view regarding the credibility of B’s report. B appears to me 
to be an expert in his field. He cites some 35 years’ experience conducting 
independent inspections, and that he is registered for this purpose with Trading 
Standards services. I further note B’s report says that he also held managerial 
positions with S in Service Inspection Quality Control. Creation does not give any 
substantive reason for questioning B’s credibility, and I’m satisfied B has the 
appropriate experience and expertise to compile his report.
Creation has referenced the earlier reports carried out by the technician and by S. I 
consider the technician’s report of limited value. It deals only with the marks then 
apparent on the seat cushions, not the recliner handle repair or the later marks on 
the headrests and cushions. The fact that the technician was able to remove the 
earlier marks doesn’t mean the sofa was free from latent defects that might only have 
become apparent further down the line.
That leaves the report from S. That report contains some high quality photographs of 
the condition of the sofas, which are undoubtedly useful. However, I think it would be 
fair to say S’s report doesn’t contain the level of detail expressed in B’s report. It 
gives me little information on the experience or expertise of the inspector, though I’ve 
no reason to question this. But it also fails to mention the issue with the recliner 
handles, and gives no significant explanation of why it concluded that “head oils” was 
the underlying cause of the surface damage shown in the photographs.
Even if that were to be substantiated, I think it would speak to the issue of whether 
the sofa manufacture was sufficiently durable. S inspected the sofa in November 
2019 – about 18 months after Mr H took delivery. That doesn’t strike me as a 
particularly long time, even for an item of furniture likely to be in daily use. A 
reasonable person might expect a sofa they’d looked after to last longer than 18 
months before displaying such problems. B’s report notes that the “…furniture is 
clean and looked after showing no signs of neglect or misuse…”, echoing S’s report 
describing the furniture condition as “good”.
I see no reason why, in light of this, I should conclude that the issues with the sofas 
are down to a lack of care or ordinary wear and tear on Mr H’s part. Rather, I’m 
satisfied that I can fairly place reliance on the conclusions in B’s report, which 
addresses the key issues Mr H raised and explains its reasons for determining that 
the problems are down to inherent defects in the sofa finish pre-supply, and an 
inadequate repair on the recliner handles.
Overall, then, I’m currently minded to conclude that the sofas S supplied to Mr H 
weren’t of satisfactory quality as required under the CRA2015, and that under the 
relevant provisions of the CCA1974, Creation is liable to him for the resultant breach 
of contract. I now turn to the matter of how best to deal with that breach.
putting things right
Under the CRA2015, where goods aren’t of satisfactory quality certain remedies are 
available to the consumer. These include a short-term right to reject the goods, the 
right to a repair or replacement, and the right to a price reduction or the final right to 
reject the goods. Other remedies include claiming damages arising from the breach 
or seeking specific performance of the contract.
I don’t think the short-term right to reject would apply in this situation. Although Mr 
H’s first report of dissatisfaction was within a couple of weeks of delivery, the 
passage of time after that suggests to me that it would be wrong to say Mr H had 
rejected the sofas within the 30- day period specified in the CRA2015. And I don’t 
think the technician’s visit would be the right date either. Mr H and his family 
continued to use the sofas for some time after this, albeit that they weren’t entirely 
satisfied with the remedial work that had been carried out. I think the appropriate 
point to use for this purpose is November 2019, when Mr H disputed the response he 
received from S about the deterioration of the upholstery.
An effective repair is ruled out based on the fact there’s been a previous 
unsuccessful attempt on the recliner handles and on B’s assessment of whether this 
would be possible in respect of the other problems with the sofas. It also doesn’t 
seem right to suggest a price reduction. Mr H’s dissatisfaction with the condition of 
the sofas is behind the complaint, rather than the price he paid. And it seems to me 
unlikely that Creation is in a position to replace the sofas. It is a credit provider, rather 
than a furniture supplier.
I think it’s most likely that Mr H would be able to exercise his final right to reject the 
sofas, which would entitle him to a refund of money already paid towards them, 
subject to an appropriate deduction for use. I don’t think the 50% deduction our 
investigator suggested is quite right in this respect. While Mr H and his family have 
had some use of the sofas, that use has been notably impaired over time.
A’s report provides a working formula for this, which in the absence of any obvious 
alternative, I’m happy to adopt. That formula is the purchase price of the goods (here, 
£3,457) divided by the life expectancy of the goods, multiplied by the number of 
years or months the consumer had use of the goods (so based on November 2019, 
around a year and a half). The life expectancy of a sofa isn’t a set period, so I’ve 
thought about how long a reasonable person might expect such a sofa to last, taking 
into account matters such as the price paid.
Although Mr H has mentioned a 20-year guarantee, according to S’s website this 
applies to the sofa frame rather than the upholstery. In respect of the latter, S 
provides a 12-month guarantee, which is consistent with the warranty information on 
the manufacturer’s website. But in any event, I’m not minded to say goods should 
last only as long as the period for which they’re guaranteed. After careful 
consideration, I think it would be appropriate to use 10 years as a working figure, 
based on the reasonable expectation I’ve mentioned. That gives the following 
calculation:
(£3,457 / 10) x 1.5 = £518.55
So Creation would be entitled to deduct £518.55 from the refund of the money Mr H 
has paid towards the sofas. The calculation is complicated slightly by the fact 
Creation also lent Mr H money to buy a carpet, which forms part of the money he’s 
paid each month. In the interests of a simpler calculation for both parties, I’m minded 
to suggest Creation is entitled to retain the £518.55 deduction for use as calculated 
here, along with the £502.37 being the amount it lent for the carpet; £1,020.92 in 
total. It should calculate and refund Mr H all amounts he’s paid over this sum, and 
treat the loan agreement as at an end.
I’m conscious of the concerns Mr H has expressed about the hazard the sofas pose 
to his children. Creation should make suitable arrangements with Mr H to take the 
sofas into its possession as soon as possible, noting such arrangements should be at 
no cost to Mr H. Mr H has incurred costs in demonstrating the breach. He’s had to 
obtain two reports at a cost to him of £200. He shouldn’t be out of pocket for this. I 
propose that Creation compensates him for these costs by paying him £225, to 
reflect the costs incurred and to reflect the fact he’s not had the use of this money for 
over a year.
I note Mr H has mentioned his daughter being injured by the sofa and is considering 
claiming compensation for this. I should make it clear this isn’t something I’ve been 
minded to address in the context of Mr H’s complaint about Creation’s response to 
his breach of contract claim. What Mr H has described appears to be a personal 
injury to a member of his family rather than to him. While I have every sympathy for 
what has happened, that case is by no means as clearly laid out as the issue of 
whether Creation has liability for the sofas not being of satisfactory quality. I should 
say though, that if Mr H is minded to accept my decision, he might want to take legal 
advice on how that might impact on any future claim he might look to take against 
Creation and/or S in respect of personal injury.
Although it has been mentioned by Mr H and our investigator, I don’t propose to 
make any award to reflect any distress Mr H might have experienced as a direct 
result of the supply of the sofas. The contract between Mr H and S was to supply 
specified goods. It wasn’t a contract for pure enjoyment or designed to provide peace 
of mind. It’s not certain a claim for compensation arising from distress due to the 
breach of contract would be successful, given the general approach the courts have 
taken towards this sort of claim.
However, our rules do allow me to make a money award to reflect distress or 
inconvenience in relation to a complaint, as distinct from the breach of contract claim. 
And I do think overall Creation could have handled matters better than it did. From 
what I’ve seen, there were occasions where Creation failed to respond to Mr H’s 
claim correspondence in a timely manner. Further, I don’t think I could say Creation 
had proper regard for the content of B’s report, despite having told Mr H in February 
2020 that it would investigate further if the report confirmed a manufacturing fault or 
failed repair.
I’m conscious Mr H has strong feelings about Creation’s conduct here. I should make 
clear that it’s not for me to fine a business or make an award as a punishment. But I 
don’t doubt Creation’s handling has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience, for 
which Creation should compensate him. I can see that Mrs H’s health conditions 
have been extensively detailed in the complaint submissions. Again, while not 
intending to diminish the impact the whole situation’s had on members of Mr H’s 
family, I must assess what I think’s fair and reasonable compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience, as he’s the eligible complainant under our rules. I consider the 
£200 our investigator proposed is a fair sum in this respect.”
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response.
response to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to my provisional findings. He accepted my conclusions and the proposed 
resolution, making the following points:

The credit agreement was paid off some time ago, so there should be no outstanding 
balance against which redress should be offset

He’d been able to source a replacement sofa on a temporary basis, so it was 
important the faulty goods were uplifted as soon as possible

Creation had in the past taken a long time to respond to their situation and he was 
anxious to avoid any further delay in finally settling matters
Creation acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but made no further submissions 
in response to my proposed conclusions.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said anything that causes me to change my provisional findings, or that 
leads me to reach a different conclusion. It follows that, for the reasons I’ve set out here and 
in my provisional decision, I’m upholding Mr H’s complaint.
I’ve noted Mr H’s comments. I don’t think it’s necessary to amend the settlement calculation. 
If he has repaid the credit in full, this calculation simply means he will receive the money as 
part of the refund instead of having nothing further to pay. However, I take his point 
regarding the need to avoid further delay.
I’m aware that Creation has told us of difficulties it’s having due to Covid-19 implications. But 
I have to balance that against the ongoing problems Mr H has experienced; not least the 
need to store a redundant pair of sofas and his financial situation, which means he’s unable 
to bear the cost of a longer-term replacement until Creation refunds him. Taking these 
factors into account, I think it’s appropriate that I set a fair timescale in which Creation must 
carry out the resolution I’ve instructed. I’ll set out this timescale below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To settle it, Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd must take the following steps to resolve the dispute:
1.
Within five calendar days of being notified of Mr H’s acceptance of this final decision, 
contact Mr H to arrange a suitable date on which to collect the faulty goods. 
Collection should be at no cost to Mr H.
2.
Calculate the total amount Mr H has paid under the credit agreement;
3.
Deduct from the sum in 2. the amount of £1,020.92 to reflect the price of the carpet 
and the use Mr H has made of the sofas;
4.
Pay Mr H the remaining sum after the deduction in 3. and – in the event it hasn’t 
already done so – treat the credit agreement as being at an end. For the avoidance 
of any doubt, this account should show as being fully settled on Mr H’s credit file;
5. Pay Mr H £225 to compensate him for the costs he incurred in obtaining the third 
party reports; and
6.
Pay Mr H £200 for his distress and inconvenience
For the avoidance of any doubt, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take steps 2-6 
within 28 calendar days of being notified of Mr H’s acceptance of my final decision. If 
Creation fails to pay within this timescale, it will also need to pay interest on the total amount, 
calculated daily at 8% simple per year from the notification date. If Creation deducts tax from 
this interest, it should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
