DRN-2514271
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t managed the
collection of his account arrears well.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S’s complaint to Creation was that there had been a delay in their response to him and
that they hadn’t assisted him to make arrangements to pay his arrears. I’ve considered those
issues, but I can see that Mr S has raised some further concerns. He’ll need to tell Creation
about those concerns and allow them to consider their response. But if he’s subsequently
dissatisfied he can then raise them with this service.
When the payment plan failed in in September 2019 Mr S told Creation he only wanted to
communicate with them in writing. Whilst I understand his desire to have a record of his
complaint progress I don’t think Creation were wrong to insist on speaking to him on the
phone. Mr S could speak on the phone, but he simply preferred not to.
Creation have explained that as the previous direct debit had been cancelled they wanted to
speak to Mr S to understand his situation and to see how they could help. I can understand
that it may not have been possible to set up a new direct debit on-line and I don’t think it
would be fair for me to interfere in Creation’s operational procedures that required them to
discuss such issues over the phone. It’s for Creation to decide how they communicate with
their customers. Although I’d expect them to make provision for those who were unable to
speak on the phone, I don’t think they need to make provision for those who are unwilling to.
Creation didn’t respond to Mr S for three weeks and they apologised for that. In the
circumstances, I don’t think the delay was excessive and I’m persuaded that an apology was
sufficient.
I’m therefore not asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
