DRN-1731434
 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t give him a detailed explanation 
for why his loan application was declined.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I’ll only provide a 
brief overview here. In July 2019 Mr C applied for lending with Creation. The loan application 
was later declined. In summary Creation said that Mr C “did not meet their lending criteria”. 
Mr C says he understands no-one has the right to a loan, but he would like to know more 
specifically why his loan was declined. Creation didn’t give a further explanation and the 
matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didn’t think the complaint should 
be upheld. 
She concluded that Creation had acted fairly by giving the main reason for their decision and 
that they weren’t obliged to be more specific. Mr C points out that he has a good credit 
score, healthy finances and would still like more detail. He’s asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator’s outcome and for very similar reasons. As 
Mr C acknowledges, financial businesses don’t have to agree every application for borrowing 
they receive. They can exercise their commercial judgement to refuse an application, and 
they’re not required to give the unsuccessful applicant a detailed explanation of their 
reasons. 
I’m satisfied that Creation looked at a range of factors and decided, on this occasion, not to 
offer lending to Mr C. I’ve not seen any evidence to support that they acted unfairly or in a 
discriminatory fashion when they exercised their discretion in the way they did. 
I can understand why this is important to Mr C, but in these circumstances, I can’t require 
Creation to give a more detailed explanation. I note Mr C has told us he has more recently 
successfully applied for lending elsewhere which was agreed without issue. I’m glad Mr C 
was able to secure lending, but that doesn’t impact on my thoughts about how Creation have 
handled matters.
Overall, I don’t think Creation have treated Mr C unfairly in all the circumstances and so I’m 
not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman
