DRN-3148661
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t make a fair and reasonable 
offer in response to his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr L into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr L paid off the loan by taking further borrowing on his mortgage. He later moved out and 
sold the property, so no longer gets any benefit from having the solar panels. 
Creation didn’t accept there had been a misrepresentation but made an offer of settlement. 
Mr L rejected this, as he didn’t think it took into account the additional costs incurred through 
refinancing via his mortgage and that he no longer lives at or owns the property.
Mr L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions where that 
data wasn’t available. The adjudicator also said that the additional costs of refinancing 
should be taken into account as well as the fact that Mr L no longer benefits from the solar 
panels.
Creation said it accepted the adjudicator’s assessment but did not provide an updated offer 
within a reasonable time. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Mr L attempted to mitigate his losses by using his mortgage to pay off the loan early. He has 
since re-mortgaged. So, Creation should include any costs such as interest that Mr L has 
incurred through the additional borrowing he took on to pay off the loan – including on the re-
mortgage if the initial lending had not been paid off by the time of the re-mortgage. Mr L will 
need to provide statements from both mortgage accounts if he hasn’t already done so.
Mr L has also moved out of the property, after which he would’ve obtained no benefit from 
using any of the energy generated. And once he sold the property he no longer received the 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments. Once he stopped receiving these benefits they should not be 
included in Creation’s calculations.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr L fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels for 
the period he was living in (in relation to energy savings) and owned the property (in relation 
to FIT payments). 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr L paid more than he should have, then Creation 
needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation 
has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr L by way of 
explanation. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Mr L has settled the loan by refinancing, so he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation (if he hasn’t already done so) and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr L paid with the refinanced loans.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld in line with our approach 
within a reasonable time. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr L’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
