DRN-3300081
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a refund on her 
account after a retailer made an error.
What happened
Mrs J bought a kitchen appliance from a retailer, C. She paid for it with credit provided by 
Creation. However, C made a mistake with the order and sent the wrong product. C 
acknowledged its error and arranged for a refund. That took longer than expected, however, 
and in the meantime two payments were taken under the credit agreement – one for £34.78 
on 4 August 2020 and one for £12.60 on 17 August 2020. After that, Mrs J cancelled the 
direct debit instruction she had given to her bank. 
Creation did not dispute Mrs J’s entitlement to a refund and arranged for the balance on her 
account to be cleared. According to the records it has provided, however, that was not done 
until May 2021. It appears that this was because C initially cancelled the wrong agreement.  
Mrs J referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought that, whilst the balance due under the credit agreement had, 
correctly, been written off, Mrs J had not received a refund of the two payments made in 
August 2020. She invited Creation to consider making a refund and then issued a 
preliminary view recommending that it did so. She thought too that Creation ought to pay 
Mrs J a further £75 in recognition of the inconvenience to which she had been put and the 
distress she had suffered. The investigator sent copies of her view to both Creation and Mrs 
J. Neither has replied, so the case has been passed to me to review.       
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator set out his understanding of the background in his opinion letter. The facts 
do not appear to be in dispute. 
I agree with the investigator’s assessment that Creation has not done enough to resolve Mrs 
J’s complaint. Since she did not receive the appliance paid for with the credit provided by 
Creation, she ought to be put in the position in which she would have been if she had not 
taken out that credit. So, as well as writing off the balance of the credit, Creation ought to 
refund the payments she made, with interest.    
I agree too that some further compensation is warranted and that £75 is appropriate in the 
circumstances. In addition, Creation should remove any adverse credit information relating 
to Mr J and which may have been recorded as a result of these events. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs J’s complaint in full, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should:

refund the two payments made by Mrs J on 4 and 8 August 2020, together with interest 
at 8% a year simple from the date of payment until the date of the refund;

pay Mrs J a further £75; and 

arrange for the removal of any adverse credit information which may have been 
registered in respect of the purchase from C.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
