DRN-3981060
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, has rejected the claim he made under 
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“the Act”) in relation to a solar panel system 
he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier, which he says caused his relationship 
with Creation to be unfair on him.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
In March 2014, Mr C purchased a solar panel system (“the system”) to be installed at his 
home. Mr C financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation that 
was repayable over ten years. In 2019, Mr C moved out of the property but is still repaying 
the loan.
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr C’s behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Creation. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr C to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made, which made Creation’s 
ongoing relationship with Mr C unfair on him:

The system would pay for itself through Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) payments, which would 
cover the loan repayments, so Mr C would not be worse off each month.
Creation responded to say the claim had been made too late, so it had no liability. The CMC 
then complained about this on Mr C’s behalf to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator said the claim was not made too late, since the loan (and therefore 
Creation’s relationship with Mr C) was ongoing, So, if the relationship was unfair on Mr C 
then Creation would still have liability. 
The complaint we can look at is about the response to the claim. That complaint was made 
within the time limits in our rules. However, when looking at the merits of the complaint, our 
adjudicator concluded that the system was not misrepresented to Mr C, and the relationship 
between him and Creation was not unfair on him. So, our adjudicator said that Creation did 
not need to do anything further. 
The CMC didn’t agree with this and provided some further comments from Mr C. Amongst 
other things, he said that:

He was told it was a no brainer and that he would make money. 

The loan has caused him some financial problems.

He’s still paying for the loan, even though he cannot benefit from the system 
anymore, having moved out of the property. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 56 says 
that any negotiations between Mr C and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by 
the supplier as an agent of Creation. 
Section 140 gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between a creditor 
and a debtor was unfair to the debtor. In doing so a court will look at the way the creditor has 
acted in relation to its rights under the credit agreement and takes account of these matters 
in relation to any linked agreement – for example, an agreement to purchase a solar panel 
system. The court can look at any other things done (or not done) by or on behalf of the 
creditor before or after the making of the credit or linked agreement.
This means that if the system was misrepresented to Mr C by the supplier, which was acting 
as Creation’s agent, that could create an unfair relationship between him and Creation. 
For the purpose of this decision, I’ve used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Creation. 
These include the credit agreement and sales contract, which includes a table showing the 
predicted system performance.
I’m satisfied that the sales contract and predicted system performance table are likely to 
have formed a central part of the sales process and are therefore relevant, alongside Mr C’s 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
Mr C has confirmed he was shown information on the salesperson’s laptop during the sales 
meeting. I think that is likely to have been the sales contract including the predicted system 
performance table, which Mr C signed during the meeting.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable (£14,162.40), the term of the loan (120 months) and the contractual 
monthly repayments (£118.02, which is £1,416.24 per year). Mr C also signed this, and I 
think he’d have been aware of these figures, so could compare the costs with what was 
shown on the contract and predicted system performance table. 
Contract and predicted system performance table
The sales contract included the following predicted system performance table:
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding, when compared to the 
loan repayments of £118.02 per month or £1,416.24 per year. In the first year, the total FIT 
payments are shown to be £491.77, and the electricity savings are £234.64. This makes a 
total of £726.36, which is clearly shown in the table. That is significantly less than the annual 
loan repayments. 
The annual benefits (FIT and electricity savings) do not exceed the annual loan repayments 
within the ten-year term of the loan, being at most £1,140.35 in the tenth year. 
The total cost of the loan (£14,162.40) is not covered by the benefits until the end of year 14. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson would’ve misrepresented the solar panel system 
as self-funding on a month-to-month basis, as Mr C has alleged. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, I’m 
satisfied that the system was not misrepresented to Mr C in the way he has alleged, and I 
have found no other reason to conclude that the relationship between Mr C and Creation 
was unfair on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
