DRN-4421605
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) asked her to repay a 
debt that she didn’t think she owed.
What happened
Mrs A entered into a loan agreement with Creation in March 2020. The loan had a term of 60 
months and the monthly loan repayments were £60.16. In July and August 2022, Mrs A 
missed two of these contractual repayments. Creation says Mrs A managed to pay one of 
the payments shortly afterwards, but a plan was set up to repay the other payment in 
instalments over a period of six months starting from September 2022.
Soon after this period, Mrs A began receiving correspondence saying the account was in 
arrears by £60.16. Mrs A initially wrote to Creation disputing this. There was then a phone 
call between Creation and Mrs A where an adviser explained that the arrears were from 
February 2023, however Mrs A disputed this again. Upon receipt of further collections 
letters, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. Following this, a default notice was 
issued in August 2023. 
In October 2023, Creation issued a final response letter. In summary, it said it had attempted 
to take a payment for £60.16 in February 2023, however this was returned as unpaid two 
days later. It acknowledged that the adviser Mrs A spoke with could have made it clearer 
that what was owed on the account was a contractual repayment which had been missed, 
and therefore not linked to the separate arrangement to repay the previous arrears. 
However, it ultimately said the funds were still owed.
One of our investigators ultimately reviewed matters. In summary, he said the payment that 
was owed was the last contractual repayment of Mrs A’s agreement. And whilst her 
statements don’t show a returned direct debit, the contractual repayment from 
February 2023 hadn’t been paid. So, he didn’t think Creation acted unfairly by pursuing her 
for the outstanding amount.
Creation didn’t dispute our investigator’s findings, but Mrs A did and mostly repeated her 
earlier points. She also pointed out that her statement didn’t show a returned payment and 
that if Creation didn’t take the payment in February 2023, then that was its mistake. As an 
agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’ve decided not to uphold Mrs A’s complaint. I’ll explain my reasons why.
As part of Mrs A’s agreement, she is required to make the monthly loan repayment on her 
account each month. Creation’s systems show that in February 2023, it attempted to take 
the payment from Mrs A’s account, but this was returned unpaid two days later. However, 
Mrs A points out that there was no record of a returned direct debit on her bank statements. 
Therefore, it’s unclear exactly what happened with the payment here.
I also note that Mrs A disputed the missed payment in June 2023 and outlined why she 
thought she had made all the necessary payments. But I can’t see that Mrs A received a 
response to this letter.
However, as I understand it, there was a subsequent phone call later that month between 
Mrs A and Creation. During the call, Mrs A said she had made all payments under the 
agreed arrangement to pay off previous arrears. It’s clear there was some confusion here, 
and I agree that it would’ve been more helpful if the adviser explained that the missing 
payment was February’s contractual payment, and therefore not linked to the arrangement 
to pay the previous arrears. That being said, I’m still satisfied that Mrs A was put on some 
notice about what payment was owed on the account during the phone call with the adviser.
Additionally, Mrs A received several letters explaining that her account was in arrears of 
£60.16 and that she needed to make a payment immediately. As there was no payment 
made, a default notice was sent to Mrs A in August 2023. The letter explained that the 
account would be terminated if the outstanding balance wasn’t paid. 
Having thought carefully about all this, I can understand there was some confusion about the 
missed payment in the first instance and it’s unclear exactly why the payment wasn’t taken. 
However, having reviewed all the available information, I’m satisfied that a payment was 
indeed owed on the account. 
I acknowledge that Mrs A says Creation should have taken the monthly repayment as 
agreed. That’s true, it should have, and it’s unclear exactly what happened here. However, I 
need to point out here that Mrs A also has an obligation; that being to ensure payments are 
made towards her outstanding balance and to mitigate any losses. 
Here, Creation made Mrs A aware that a payment was owing on the account, and it was 
clear about what may happen if the payment wasn’t made. The fact is, Mrs A didn’t make the 
required payment and so those consequences came to pass. On that basis, I can’t fairly 
determine that Creation treated Mrs A unfairly in how it pursued her for the outstanding 
balance. It follows that I don’t uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman
