DRN-4026515
The complaint
Mr H complains that he wasn’t able to access his account with Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd, who I’ll call “Creation”, via the online account management system, and he therefore 
missed a payment, and attracted interest, for an item he bought on Buy Now Pay Later 
terms.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I don’t think Creation need to take any action here. I’ll 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I accept that Mr H entered into his Buy Now Pay Later transaction with the intention of using 
his online account to make payment before the interest free period expired. I also accept that 
Mr H had trouble accessing his account online in order to check when payments were due 
and to make one.
However, I don’t think Creation were obliged to provide online access, and I think the onus 
was on Mr H to ensure payments reached his account in time in order to avoid attracting 
interest. In the absence of the online platform, he could still have paid via bank transfer, 
cheque, or Creation’s automated system, and I think it’s likely he would have known that was 
a possibility and at least had an approximate understanding of when his Buy Now Pay Later 
would attract interest.
Mr H’s “account details” suggest he had opted to receive statements via email and the email 
address Creation had for him was the same one we’ve been using for correspondence. I 
think it’s therefore also likely that Mr H was receiving statements from Creation. Having 
looked at those statements I can see they identified when the Buy Now Pay Later account 
was set to attract interest. That seems another reason why Mr H should have been aware of 
the need to pay, albeit by alternative means from the online portal he wished to use.
Ultimately, I don’t think Creation have done anything wrong here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
