DRN-4563274
The complaint
Ms A’s complaint is in relation to a finance arrangement she entered into with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to fund the purchase and fitting of a built-in wardrobe from a third 
party “W”. She was unhappy with W’s services, for which Creation carries connected lender 
liability, and with the way in which Creation continued to seek payment from her despite that 
dispute.
Background to complaint
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out the background to this complaint and how 
I was minded to propose matters were best resolved. I’ve reproduced my provisional 
decision here, which forms part of this final decision:
“What happened
In early 2021 Ms A arranged with W to design, supply and fit a built-in wardrobe at her 
property. The cash price attached to W’s services was £4,600. Ms A paid an initial deposit, 
with the balance to be funded by a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) loan of £2,600 from Creation. 
Under the BNPL terms, the loan would incur interest if it wasn’t settled within 12 months of
the drawdown date of April 2021.
W fitted the wardrobe. However, Ms A wasn’t happy with certain aspects, which she flagged 
to W. Her key concerns expressed were with the sensor-activated light, the depth of one of 
the shelves, that W’s fitter hadn’t covered the unused drill holes, and that it hadn’t been 
possible to fit some of the shelves due to a lack of space. Ms A told W she felt the interest- 
free period shouldn’t start until she was satisfied with the work. Ms A went on to inform “H”, a 
third party dispute resolution service, of the problems she was having.
In September 2021 Ms A informed Creation of what had happened, reiterating her 
dissatisfaction with W and saying that the finance agreement should be terminated. She also 
cancelled her direct debit.
H attempted to resolve the dispute between Ms A and W. In January 2022 it arranged for W 
to return to carry out remedial work; however for medical reasons Ms A asked for this to be 
postponed. She contacted W again in June 2022 to arrange this, but says she got no 
response.
In the interim Creation liaised with W and Ms A, expressing the view that it would be 
reasonable to attempt to rectify the problems. It declined to terminate the loan or suspend 
interest or payments. It continues to hold Ms A liable for repayment, and has commenced 
legal action for recovery due to account arrears.
Our investigator didn’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to manage the loan account as 
it had. She noted Ms A’s reasons for cancelling payment, but wasn’t persuaded that this 
would override Ms A’s contractual obligation to repay the loan as it fell due, or Creation’s 
entitlement to apply interest.
The investigator noted that it was accepted by all parties that there were problems with the 
wardrobe as described by Ms A. She felt that the remedial work had been delayed for a 
number of reasons attributable to both W and Ms A. By way of resolution, the investigator 
proposed that Creation terminate the loan with nothing further for Ms A to pay, and arrange 
to collect the wardrobe, should it so wish.
Creation didn’t accept the investigator’s recommendation. It said it was still willing to facilitate 
the remedial work. Ms A appears unwilling to agree to this and has said she’s given them the 
chance to rectify the problems and has lost trust in W and Creation. The matter has now 
been passed to me for review.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The arrangements between Ms A, Creation, and W meet the requirements of section 75 in 
terms of both financial limits and structure. Ms A’s claim is founded in breach of contract, 
based on obligations incorporated into her contract with C under relevant provisions of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”). Those obligations relate to the quality of the goods and 
to the services W provided to Ms A.
Noting the comments from H and the attempts by all parties to arrange the rectification work, 
it seems to be accepted that the contract hasn’t been performed to a satisfactory standard. 
That might mean Creation is liable to Ms A in terms of a breach of contract claim. But I don’t 
share our investigator’s view as to how best to resolve matters.
There are various remedies open to Ms A under the CRA and in common law. Given the 
nature of the concerns Ms A raised, some of which relate to the provision of goods and 
others of services, it doesn’t necessarily follow that Creation would be liable to her to the 
extent suggested in our initial assessment.
My role here isn’t to determine the outcome of a breach of contract claim or predict what a 
court might (or might not) conclude in relation to such a dispute. Rather, it’s to consider 
Creation’s actions and whether it has acted fairly in responding to Ms A’s concerns in the 
way that it did.
Here, the defects Ms A identified appear to be capable of being fixed. I accept that there 
have been delays in carrying out that work, which appear attributable to both W and Ms A. 
However, I see no reason to hold Creation responsible for the delay. Nor do I consider that 
Creation treated Ms A unfairly in showing willing to arrange for the remedial work to be 
carried out. Ms A’s lack of faith in W doesn’t mean that Creation is acting unreasonably in 
this respect, or that it was inappropriate for it to make such a proposal. It was, after all, the 
same proposal put forward by H in its role as mediator
Nevertheless, there is clearly an impasse between the parties that needs to be overcome. 
The defects appear capable of rectification in relatively short order by a suitably qualified 
fitter, but Ms A objects to W carrying out that work. To resolve this position, I propose that 
Creation promptly obtains from W details of the likely timescale and cost of carrying out the 
remedial work. Creation should undertake to pay this amount to Ms A, who will be able to 
use it towards the cost of engaging a fitter of her own choice.
I now turn to the question of Creation’s administration of the loan. As I’ve said, the loan was 
on a ‘buy now, pay later’ basis with an interest-free period. There was no provision within the 
agreement that the interest-free period was contingent on Ms A being satisfied with the 
installation. Rather, the agreement made clear that the loan would start once the goods were 
supplied, that the first payment was due 12 months after this, and that to avoid incurring 
interest the full amount advanced – £2,600 – would need to be repaid before that point.
I understand that Ms A felt it was appropriate for her to withhold payment and seek an 
extension to the interest-free arrangement. That didn’t oblige Creation to agree, and its 
correspondence with Ms A was clear as to what would happen if she didn’t make payment 
when due.
Ms A may have had her reasons for her decision not to pay, but she did so with knowledge 
of the consequences of that decision. In light of this, I’m not minded to require any 
amendment to the outstanding loan balance – which to me appears to have been correctly 
calculated. Further, I don’t see there’s any basis for me to direct any amendment to the 
payment information that Creation has recorded on Ms A’s credit file.”
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response 
to my intended conclusions.
Responses to my provisional decision
Creation acknowledged my intended conclusions. It had approached W, who were willing to 
carry out the remedial work without charge at a couple of weeks’ notice. However, while 
Creation did say it was making enquiries as to cost (in the event the work was carried out by 
a different fitter), to date I’ve received no further information about this important aspect.
Ms A also responded to my provisional decision. She made further submissions about the 
circumstances of the installation and Creation’s engagement with the claim, as well as 
detailed additional information about the impact the problem had on her. Noting the 
sensitivities within that information about Ms A’s health and wellbeing, I won’t set out the 
detail in this document.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Ms A that I’ve read her submissions in full – those she made in the course 
of the dispute and those she sent me in response to my provisional decision. I must make 
clear, it’s not my intention to understate her strength of feeling or the impact she explains 
matters had on her. However, they don’t offer a basis for me to hold Creation responsible for 
her decision not to make payment, or for the consequences of her not doing so.
Ms A didn’t incur additional costs due to her concerns over W’s fitting work, save perhaps for 
her own time in communication with W (and latterly, with Creation). Her contract with 
Creation made clear the point by which she needed to pay the loan balance in order to avoid 
interest. Presumably she had budgeted for this cost and was in a position to pay it. If she 
was not, this wasn’t because of her dealings with Creation.
I can empathise with the fact that the arrangements have now cost Ms A a good deal more 
than she might have allowed for in her budget, and the impact this will have had on her 
family finances. No doubt that’s been the source of much stress for her. But for the reasons 
I’ve explained here and in my provisional decision, I find these to be consequences of her 
decision not to pay off the loan.
I’m conscious Ms A has made a point of asking why Creation didn’t pick up on her email 
informing it of her decision and tell her this wasn’t possible. In light of the clear wording of 
the finance agreement and the letters she’d already received about the pending expiry of the 
interest-free period, I’m satisfied she should – and would – have been aware of what would 
happen as a result.
Taking all of this into account it wouldn’t be fair for me to find Creation liable for the financial 
situation Ms A has found herself in. However, I would remind Creation that as a responsible 
lender it has obligations towards customers in financial difficulty to ensure it deals with them 
fairly. I trust it will bear this in mind in any action to recover payment.
I also remain of the opinion that the rectification work, once carried out properly, would put 
Ms A in the position she expected to be in under the contract she had with W. That was the 
proposal put forward by H in 2022 and I’ve seen nothing to indicate why it would be 
inappropriate today. Ms A shouldn’t be put to additional cost for this, but I also have to 
recognise that W has reiterated that it can carry out the work without charge.
The difficulty with this remedy is that Ms A appears to remain unwilling for this to happen. As 
I said in my provisional decision, that doesn’t make the remedy inappropriate. However, in 
the interests of achieving a resolution I did ask Creation to obtain from W the cost of such 
work, in order that Ms A might instead appoint her own fitter to carry out the remaining work. 
It’s disappointing to note that despite asking for this to be provided promptly, it hasn’t been 
forthcoming. That means I need to determine an appropriate sum myself.
That W would be willing – indeed, obliged – to undertake the remedial work without charge 
isn’t the same as saying there is no cost. It would involve a cost to W, just not one passed on 
to Ms A. In the absence of any useful indication from Creation, I’ve looked at trade guides 
online. The remaining work doesn’t appear to require specialist knowledge or qualifications, 
so on the assumption of two persons being needed to undertake the work, a sum of £500 is 
in my view a reasonable estimate of prospective loss that Creation should pay Ms A in order 
to settle the complaint.
Alternatively, if Ms A does now wish for W to undertake the work, which would likely avoid 
costs of sourcing materials and ensure a suitable match to existing framework, this remains 
an option open to her. She should let Creation know if she would prefer to exercise this 
option, and I would expect Creation to liaise with W on Ms A’s behalf to arrange a suitable 
time and date.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve set out here and in my provisional decision, which forms part of this final 
decision, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Ms A £500 in settlement of her 
complaint. Ms A should note that accepting this sum is likely to have an impact on any claim 
she might seek to raise or pursue against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd in relation to the 
work carried out by W.
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is not required to pay Ms A this £500 in the event that she 
instead elects for W to carry out the remedial work. Ms A should notify Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd if this is the course of action she chooses to take. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2024.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman
