DRN-2931500
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd set up two credit plans she had 
entered into for items incorrectly and says they should have been interest free and not buy 
now pay later plans.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs T wished to buy an item from a retailer and decided to finance this 
purchase by entering into a credit facility called “Your Plan” with Creation. This plan provided 
Mrs T with a total credit limit of £5,000 which she could use for this and any other 
subsequent purchases. The account was set up online with monthly statements and other 
information being uploaded as and when in accordance with the option selected by Mrs T as 
to how she wished to operate the account online. 
The terms and conditions of the credit agreement set out that each time the credit was used 
it would be one of three different types of transactions depending on the goods or services 
that were being bought. The three types of transactions available were:

Interest free 

Interest bearing 

Buy now pay later 
Mrs T also signed a direct debit mandate for payments to be made under the agreement.
The first purchase undertaken by Mrs T was an interest free plan to be paid by equal 
instalments over a six-month period. These payments were made by direct debit.
In September 2018 Mrs T purchased a second item. Creation says that this item wasn’t 
available under an interest free plan as the first item had been and Mrs T entered into a buy 
now pay later plan (“BNPL”) for it instead. It says the BNPL instructions were uploaded on to 
Mrs T’s online account. And under the BNPL scheme, payment for the item was deferred for 
six months and no interest was payable, so Mrs T was free to choose to pay off the item in 
full, pay something towards the balance or make no payments at all in the deferred period. If 
at the end of the deferred period there was a balance outstanding for the item, then interest 
would be applied from the date of the transaction. The balance was then payable over 24 
monthly instalments via direct debit. No direct debits would be taken until after the six-month 
period had passed.
However, Mrs T says she was told by the salesperson this was a six-month interest free 
purchase and she thought it would be like her first purchase where equal instalments were 
paid via direct debit over that six-month period. She says she did not check her online 
account because she had relied on what she had been told by the salesperson. Mrs T also 
says that as the direct debits were set up to come out of a bank account that wasn’t closely 
monitored, she didn’t notice payments weren’t going out.
In February 2019 a statement was uploaded to Mrs T’s online account informing her that the 
specified offer date for her second purchase was about to end. Mrs T didn’t pay anything 
towards to balance and when the deferred period ended interest was then applied to the 
outstanding balance.
During that same February, Mrs T purchased a third item using the credit plan. Again, this 
item was BNPL though Mrs T says she was told it was interest free and thought that it would 
operate like the first purchase with regular direct debit payments being taken to cover the 
cost of the item over the six-month period.
A statement was sent to Mrs T in July 2019 setting out that the specified offer date was 
approaching. Mrs T didn’t pay anything off this balance and so interest was added.
In November 2019 Mrs T became aware that she was paying interest on both items 
purchased under the BNPL plans and that the direct debits hadn’t been requested by 
Creation to pay for the goods until each of the deferred periods had ended. Mrs T 
complained to Creation that she had been misled as to the plans she had taken out and was 
unfairly being charged interest.
Creation didn’t uphold her complaint. It said that both the items purchased by Mrs T had not 
been available to buy through interest free plans and had been set up as BNPL plans with 
details provided to her online account. It said that had Mrs T paid for the items within the six 
months of acquiring them then no interest would have been applied. It said that in all the 
circumstances no mistake had been made in the setting up of these two agreements and it 
had been fair to apply the interest charges as it had.
Mrs T was unhappy at the response from Creation and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didn’t recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said Creation had 
provided Mrs T with all the necessary information about the two BNPL plans via her 
statements and online account, so she didn’t think it had done anything wrong. Our 
investigator said that Mrs T hadn’t been misled when told these items were interest free for 
six-months because no interest was added for that period.
Mrs T disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said Creation hadn’t been able to 
show her proof that she had taken out any BNPL plans and says she wouldn’t have agreed 
to this type of transaction. She says that without any information to the contrary she had 
assumed these two purchases operated in the same way as the first six-months interest free 
plan had, with payments being taken by direct debit over that six-month period and had been 
misled. Mrs T says she hadn’t seen a copy of the agreement.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the documentation that has been provided, I’ve seen that at the time Mrs T 
purchased the first item, in April 2018, she had entered into a revolving credit agreement. 
This agreement operates in the similar way to a credit card as there is a credit limit set and 
Mrs T is able to make drawdowns from that limit to purchase different items. The agreement 
has no fixed duration.
Looking at the terms and conditions of that agreement it sets out under the heading 
“Transactions” that “each time credit is used it will be treated as one or either of the following 
transactions”. It then sets out “One or more of these transactions will be available, 
depending on the goods and services you are buying. We will tell you which it is, the period 
over which it must be repaid (“transaction period”) and the monthly repayment which will 
apply.

Interest bearing transaction…..From time to time we may offer credit on specific 
goods at promotional rates which we will tell you at the time.

Interest free transaction: a transaction on which no interest is payable.

Buy now pay later transaction: a transaction on which repayments are deferred for a
specified period which we will tell you (“deferral period”).
Interest

No interest will be payable on interest free transactions; and

Providing you repay the sum burrowed under the Buy now pay later transaction 
before the end of this deferral period no interest will be payable. If you do not repay it 
in full before the end of the deferral period, then interest will be applied from the date 
the transaction was made. We will advise you that the deferral period is about to 
come to an end in the statement issued the month before.”
This agreement was signed electronically as was the direct debit mandate that was with the 
agreement. An online account was created for Mrs T that would have monthly statements 
uploaded on to it and would also allow her to manage her account by supplying other 
information to her. Mrs T would also receive monthly emails informing her that a statement 
was about to be uploaded.
Mrs T has queried why Creation can’t produce the individual BNPL plans that she entered 
into, but there aren’t any separately signed plans. This is because the BNPL transactions are 
part of this revolving credit agreement. Creation says she would have been given a receipt at 
the shop and then the details of those purchases would be included in the monthly 
statements which would also advise about any deferred payment dates, payments due and 
interest to be applied. Creation also says that due to the nature of BNPL plans, direct debit 
payments aren’t taken until the deferred period has ended as this gives the consumer 
flexibility about how to pay. It says this would have been clear from the statements sent to 
Mrs T.
I don’t know what was said by the salesperson to Mrs T, but it was clear that the purchases 
were done via the Your Plan account and that Mrs T appears to have been aware of this. 
I’ve seen that Mrs T has also accepted that she didn’t look at her online account to check her 
statements nor did she check that any direct debits were being taken for the second and 
third items that she’d bought. So, she didn’t view the statements and was unaware that her 
presumption about the direct debits was incorrect.
However, I’m satisfied on the evidence that I have seen that Mrs T was provided with all the 
necessary information via her online account. Monthly statements were sent, and these set 
out what purchases had been made and when any deferred periods for BNPL plans were 
ending.
I appreciate Mrs T strongly believed that the second and third items she had purchased 
would operate in the same way as the six-month interest free plan worked but I think that it’s 
more likely than not that she misunderstood the salesperson when they raised the items 
came with six-month interest free period. I can’t reasonably say there was no interest free 
period because it was an option for Mrs T to clear the costs of those items within six months 
and incur no interest.
I also don’t think that it’s likely Mrs T would have declined to take out the BNPL plans for the 
two items if she’d been clearer about how these plans worked. The items couldn’t be 
purchased via interest free plans as her first item had, but with these plans Mrs T had the 
option to pay off the full balance over a six-month period and not have any interest applied. 
So, I don’t think I can reasonably say the BNPL plans were unfair.
While I appreciate Mrs T was expecting Creation to take direct debit payments for the two 
items immediately (or within one month) following their purchase, I can’t say Creation acted 
unfairly in not doing so. Had Mrs T looked at her statements then she would have been 
aware no payments were being made and she would have been able to rectify this position if 
she had wanted to. 
Looking at the evidence I don’t think Mrs T was misled about the BNPL plans nor do I think 
that Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding interest to the balances for the 
two items purchased under the BNPL plans. It provided Mrs T with all the necessary 
information as to how the BNPL plans worked and when the deferred interest period was 
coming to an end. The BNPL plans are included in the terms and conditions of the Your Plan 
credit agreement she had entered into. So, for the reasons given, I’m not upholding Mrs T’s 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m not upholding Mrs T’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
