DRN-1168376
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) has unfairly applied a 
late payment charge and interest on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr D’s account required a payment to be made by 12 April 2019. He made the payment that 
morning via a faster payment through his online banking and his bank subsequently 
confirmed Creation’s bank received the payment that morning.              
Creation say that the payment was received late, not reaching Mr D’s account until 16 April 
2019. So it applied a late payment charge of £12 and an interest charge on the outstanding 
balance.
Mr D complained to Creation. He said he had made the payment in time and the charge and 
interest should be withdrawn and they should apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
Creation rejected his complaint. It said it didn’t accept faster payments. It said its terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) about payments were clear and that it takes up to five working days for 
payments to reach it. Therefore the charge and interest were correctly applied. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it but didn’t uphold Mr 
D’s complaint as he said there was no guarantee that a payment made the same day would 
be received on that day and Creation’s T&Cs did say to allow five working days for payments 
to reach the account.
Mr D disagreed and obtained further confirmation from his bank that his payment had 
reached Creation's bank on the 12 May. Our investigator said this didn’t change his view that 
Creation hadn’t done anything wrong.
As Mr D doesn’t agree it has come to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I won’t be upholding the 
complaint.
I know how strongly Mr D feels about the matter but I don’t think Creation has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in applying these charges. I’ll explain why.
As a business, Creation is entitled to decide on the processes and procedures it puts in 
place and I think it has acted in accordance with them here. The charges themselves are 
clearly set out in the credit card agreement and on the monthly statement. 
The situation here, as with all card providers is that following receipt of funds in it’s own bank 
account it then runs a reconciliation to apply those funds to the card holder’s account with it. 
Funds arriving with the card provider’s bank won’t necessarily be processed that day and 
risk incurring late payment and interest charges. The due date is clearly shown on the 
statement and the suggested five working day timeframe to make a payment allows for this 
process.
I can understand that Mr D is unhappy with Creation not being part of faster payments given 
the increased use of online banking but as Creation’s timeframe to avoid both late payment 
and interest charges is clearly set out, it hasn’t acted unreasonably in applying these 
charges. 
As Creation hasn’t acted unfairly or unreasonably I won’t be asking them to do anything else 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman
