DRN-2612734
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) didn’t place a 
default on his credit card account in 2018. He feels that given his circumstances at the time, 
this should have happened.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr T took out a credit agreement with Creation. And apart from a couple of 
occasions where a payment due on the account was missed – and the arrears were then 
later brought up to date, the account ran as agreed.
But, from February 2018 Mr T fell into arrears on the account. And in April 2018 he 
contacted Creation to let it know he was experiencing financial difficulties. Mr T told Creation 
he was working with a debt support charity and looking to make payment arrangements with 
any creditors, so his financial circumstances were more affordable. 
Because of this, Creation agreed that it would with Mr T that it would put his account on hold, 
until it received a financial statement and proof of income from him, which would enable it to 
look at coming to a reduced payment plan with him.
In June 2018 Mr T provided Creation with his financial statement – noting he would be able 
to pay £50 a month to it. However, at this point Creation still needed to see Mr T’s proof of 
income. So, it asked for this. And Mr T’s account remained on hold.
Mr T then provided this in September 2018. Creation asked some questions of Mr T at this 
point, to ensure the payment plan was affordable. The payment plan of £50 a month, for the 
next six months was agreed. And this went ahead, with the first payment being made in 
October 2018.
Following the above arrangement, Mr T has raised his concerns about how Creation handled 
his account, when he let it know he was in financial difficulties. Specifically, Mr T feels that 
Creation should have applied a default to his account in 2018. Mr T said because in 2018 he 
fell behind with his contractual agreement, and he was in around eight months of arrears.
Mr T noted that the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) principles on arrears, 
arrangements and defaults said that a default should be placed on an account within three to 
six months of it falling into arrears. And, he highlighted that this didn’t happen in his case. 
Mr T said if a default had been applied to his account in 2018, he would be in a better 
position than he is now – because the debt would have fallen off his credit file quicker. He 
said that if a default had been applied in 2018, this meant it would have no longer been on 
his file by 2024. But now he was paying £50 a month, he wouldn’t finish paying the amount 
until around 2028 – and so the account would be on his file for longer.
Creation looked into Mr T’s complaint and didn’t agree it had acted unfairly. It said Mr T had 
come to it in order to arrange a payment plan, and it had fairly put the account on hold whilst 
this was being sorted. It also said that the ICO principles provided an exception to defaults 
being applied three to six months of arrears – this being where a payment plan was in place.
Creation also noted that Mr T hadn’t broken the payment arrangement agreed, and it 
considered its handling of the situation to be correct.
Because Mr T didn’t agree, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didn’t think it should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation had acted reasonably, and in line with the ICO principles. So, he didn’t think 
Creation should have done anything differently.
Mr T responded and didn’t agree. He said he had broken his original contractual agreement, 
and therefore a default should have been applied within three to six months. He also noted 
that the ICO principles mentioned that a financial business shouldn’t put a consumer in a 
worse l position by accepting an arrangement to pay, when if the consumer had stopped 
paying this would have put them in a better position.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had placed Mr T in a worse position by accepting the 
payment plan.
Because Mr T didn’t agree with our investigator, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold this complaint. And therefore, I don’t think 
Creation needs to do anything more.
As above, Mr T contacted Creation in April 2018, to explain he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, and as such was struggling to repay what he owed to it. As Mr T had explained 
he was struggling to pay, I would expect Creation to act in line with the rules, guidance and 
standard industry practice for dealing customers in financial difficulties such as this. So, I’ve 
considered these, when coming to my decision.
The rules, which can be found in The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) explain that a 
firm;

must treat customers in default or arrears with forbearance and due consideration;

is likely to be in contravention of CONC and Principle 6 of the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN) if it refuses to “allow for alternative, affordable payment amount 
to repay the debt in full, where is customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the 
customer makes a reasonable proposal for repaying the debt”
Because the sourcebook says a firm must treat customer with forbearance and due 
consideration, I’ve considered whether Creation treated Mr T this way. And, based on the 
information I’ve seen – which includes contact notes between Mr T and Creation, as well as 
details of Mr T’s account, I’m satisfied it did.
I say this because when Mr T explained he was in financial difficulties, Creation put his 
account on hold straight away, to allow him time to work on the payment plan he was looking 
into. This is what I would have expected Creation to do – it was looking to support Mr T in 
making payments to his debt in a sustainable way at that time.
Creation continued to place the account on hold, until it received Mr T’s financial statement 
and proof of income. And, when it did receive this information, I’m aware Creation did 
discuss the evidence provided with Mr T, to check that the proposed payment of £50 a 
month would be a fair figure to agree on. And it did agree to that plan – allowing for an 
alternative, affordable and reasonable proposal for repaying the debt to be put in place.
Given that Creation agreed to provide Mr T with time to work on a plan, that it checked the 
viability of the plan when provided with it, and agreed for this to go ahead to help alleviate 
some of Mr T’s financial difficulties, I do think Creation gave consideration and forbearance 
to Mr T when he needed it. 
It’s my understanding that Creation has continued to review payment plans with Mr T, 
following the end of the first payment plan completed. And, given the amount of the credit Mr 
T had, and that Mr T would be able to pay this off within a reasonable timeframe based on 
the payment plan agreed, I think it was fair for it to do so. It enabled Mr T to pay the amount 
he ultimately owed but taking into account his circumstances at the time.
Given this, I think Creation acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it handled Mr T’s 
financial difficulties. And so, I don’t think it did anything wrong.
I understand Mr T feels Creation didn’t handle the matter reasonably. And that instead of 
agreeing to the payment plan, with regular reviews, it should also have placed a default on 
his account in 2018.
I’ve thought carefully about what Mr T has said here. But I don’t think Creation acted unfairly 
in the way it handled Mr T’s circumstances – including its decision not to apply a default to 
the account.
The ICO principles do note that a default may be recorded when an account is three months 
in arrears, and normally by the time the account is in six months of arrears. But I do agree 
with our investigator, that there are exceptions to this under the ICO principles – and one of 
these is that;
“If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.”
In this case, Mr T was looking, and then did, come to an arrangement with Creation. And 
whilst Mr T has referred to breaking his original credit agreement, the above principles are in 
relation to the arrangement he made on entering financial difficulties. And this arrangement – 
which was to pay £50 a month – was not broken. Given this wasn’t broken, Creation has 
acted in line with the exception detailed in the principles.
Mr T has said that he would have been in a better position, if Creation had chosen to default 
his account. He said the matter would have fallen off his credit file by 2024 if the default had 
been registered. But under the plan the account would not be satisfied and closed until 2028. 
I do appreciate Mr T’s position here. But I don’t think there is enough evidence to show that 
by failing to default Mr T in 2018, and instead agreeing to a payment arrangement, Creation 
was acting in a way which would put Mr T in a worse position. I can’t see Creation had any 
evidence to suggest Mr T’s circumstances were such that he would not be able to repay the 
debt at all, or that he wouldn’t be able to do so in a reasonable time, particularly given the 
payment arrangement would be reviewed in six months. And if Mr T had a change in 
circumstances, he may have still been able to settle the debt earlier than the six years it 
would take for a default to be removed from the credit file.
Since referring this case for a final decision, Mr T has said that Creation has passed some 
incorrect information onto the credit reference agencies on this account. He has said this is 
in relation to February 2021. If Mr T remains unhappy with this, he will need to raise this with 
Creation in the first instance, given this is a new issue to the complaint raised here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. So, I don’t require 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman
