DRN-3144253
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to him the money that 
he’s paid under a fixed sum loan agreement for some furniture that isn’t of satisfactory 
quality. 
What happened
Mr B used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he signed in 
March 2020 to pay £2,637 for two sofas and a footstool. The furniture was delivered in July 
2020 but he says that it’s the wrong colour. He complained to the supplier and it sent a 
technical adviser to inspect the sofas. Mr B says that the adviser agreed that the sofas were 
the wrong colour and that there was a discrepancy in the colour reference numbers but the 
supplier refused to change them.
Mr B then complained to Creation Consumer Finance. It said that the supplier had confirmed 
that the sofas that Mr B had received were as ordered but the supplier had offered a 
reselection as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that he hadn’t 
seen any documentation or reports from the supplier or a case file from Creation Consumer 
Finance. He thought that the information provided by Mr B showed that there had been a 
breach of contract by the supplier. He recommended that Creation Consumer Finance 
should refund all finance payments made, with interest, and that it should arrange and pay 
for collection of the sofas.
Creation Consumer Finance says that it’s chased the supplier for a response to those 
recommendations as it needs its feedback in case it has further evidence or if it agrees that it 
should collect the sofas – but it has provided no further information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Mr B has described in detail the circumstances leading to his complaint to Creation 
Consumer Finance and he’s provided photos of the sofas in his home;

neither the supplier nor Creation Consumer Finance has provided detailed 
information about the sofas that were bought by Mr B, to show that the correct sofas 
were delivered to him, or the technical adviser’s report;

having reviewed the photos that Mr B has provided I consider it to be clear that the 
sofas are cream and brown but the colour scheme in the room that the sofas are in is 
cream and grey;

the order form says that Mr B ordered sofas that were “snow with a grey trim” – I 
don’t consider that the sofas that were delivered to him have a grey trim and I’m not 
persuaded that it’s likely that Mr B would have chosen the colour of the sofas that 
were delivered to him;

our investigator issued his recommendations in July 2021 but no substantive 
response has been received from Creation Consumer Finance and it says that it’s 
still waiting for a response from the supplier – but more than four months have 
passed since then and I don’t consider that it’s fair or reasonable for there to be any 
further delay on this complaint;

I’ve only been provided with limited information on which to make my decision, but 
having reviewed the information that has been provided, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the sofas that have been delivered to Mr B aren’t the colour that 
he ordered; and

I consider that it’s fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr B to reject the 
furniture.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to end the fixed sum loan agreement and to refund to Mr B the payments that he’s 
made to it under the agreement. I find that it should also pay interest on those payments.
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should also arrange and pay for the sofas and 
footstool to be collected from Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr B’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr B.
2.
Refund to Mr B all of the payments that he’s made to Creation Consumer 
Finance under the fixed sum loan agreement.
3.
Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
4.
Arrange and pay for the sofas and footstool to be collected from Mr B.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
