DRN-2991485
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in April 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr S £100 for his trouble.
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s decision, and said that it would calculate the amount of 
compensation that was due and get back to her with the figures. That was in June, and we 
have heard nothing from them since, despite the adjudicator repeatedly chasing Creation for 
a response. So in August, the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Creation has accepted the adjudicator’s opinion, I do not consider it necessary to set 
out any findings here. It is enough for me to say that I have checked the evidence and I think 
that my colleague’s decision was in line with our well-established approach, with which 
Creation is familiar. So there is no reason for me to interfere, and I uphold this complaint. 
The purpose of this final decision is to give Mr S a decision which is enforceable in court, 
should the need arise.
There has been an unnecessary delay between July, when Creation might reasonably have 
been expected to provide its redress calculation following its agreement with the 
adjudicator’s decision in June, and December, as I write these words. I think that has 
inconvenienced Mr S, and while I cannot punish Creation for that, I can still take it into 
account in deciding how much compensation it would be fair to award him for his trouble 
(see paragraph DISP 3.5.14R(2) of the FCA Handbook). So I think that £200, rather than 
£100, would better reflect Mr S’s inconvenience.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with simple interest at 
8% a year.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
