DRN-3760863
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation (“Creation”) sold 
her outstanding debt to another business without telling. In doing so, they transferred a 
higher debt than the settlement figure she’d previously been given.   
What happened
In July 2019, Miss A applied for and was granted a loan with Creation. The loan was 
repayable in equal fixed monthly instalments over a term of five years.
During the first half of 2020, Miss A’s income was adversely impacted by the effects of the 
global pandemic. Creation agreed to deferral of her monthly repayments for a total of six 
months. This was followed by a further period of six months where Miss A didn’t have to 
make any payments and no additional interest and charges were applied to her debt. 
Following a review of Miss A’s financial situation in June 2021, a temporary payment plan 
was agreed with Miss A, requiring her to make monthly repayments of £250.
In August 2021, Miss A contacted Creation to obtain a settlement figure for her loan. 
Although she was provided with this, the loan wasn’t settled. Shortly after, Creation sold 
Miss A’s remaining debt to another business. But when that business contacted Miss A, the 
amount they said she owed was about £2,000 more than the settlement figure she’d been 
given.
Miss A didn’t think the amount she was told she owed was right. She also didn’t think 
Creation had acted fairly when they sold her debt. Particularly as they hadn’t told her about 
this. So, she complained to Creation. Miss A says Creation didn’t respond to her complaint 
until December 2021 when they apologised for the delay.
Miss A says the other business was suggesting she needed to make payments at a level 
significantly more than she’d agreed with Creation. That business agreed to put her 
repayments on hold while the discrepancy was resolved. 
Miss A called Creation again in January 2022 to see what was happening. She was told her 
complaint was no longer being looked into and she’d need to email them again for her case 
to be reopened, which she did.
Unhappy and concerned with Creation’s lack of response, Miss A referred her complaint to 
this service. In February 2022, Creation wrote to Miss A in response to her complaint. They 
didn’t think they’d done anything wrong as the terms and conditions of her loan allowed them 
to sell it on in these circumstances. Creation also told Miss A the settlement figure included a 
rebate of interest and charges on the basis the loan was repaid early. But as this didn’t 
happen, the full outstanding debt was sold.
Miss A wasn’t happy with Creation’s response. So, our investigator looked at all the 
circumstances and evidence available. Having done so, our investigator didn’t think Creation 
had done anything wrong. Miss A didn’t agree with our investigator’s findings. She thought it 
unfair they’d sold her debt without her knowledge. She didn’t believe she owed the interest 
difference from the settlement figure she’d been given. She was also unhappy with 
Creation’s delay in responding to her complaints.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, Miss A’s complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Miss A’s referral to this service relates to the way Creation handled her complaint. In 
particular delays receiving their response. I do appreciate Miss A’s frustrations. However, I 
must set an expectation about what I can and can’t consider here.
The rules and guidance about what this service can consider are set out in the FCA’s 
Handbook – in particular the Dispute Resolution Rules (“DISP”). These say that this service 
is only able to consider complaints about a financial service – in this case the sale of Miss 
A’s loan and her concerns about how much she owes. The DISP rules don’t allow this 
service to consider complaints about the way in which Creation handled Miss A’s concerns 
as that isn’t in itself a financial service – albeit it stems from one. So, I’m only able to 
consider the impact on Miss A regarding the sale of her debt and the amount Creation say 
she owes.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They asked businesses to consider payment deferrals of up to 
three months under regulated credit agreements. The FCA said their guidance applied 
where consumers were already experiencing or reasonably expect to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers’ circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum payment deferrals.
Creation responded to Miss A’s circumstances by agreeing payment deferrals for the 
maximum six months. Just before that ended, Creation wrote to Miss A. They wanted to 
review her circumstances. Having done so, they agreed that no payments needed to be 
made for a further period of 6 months. During this time, no additional interest or charges 
were added to Miss A’s debt. 
I’ve carefully considered the support provided by Creation here. I wouldn’t expect the initial 
six months of payment deferrals to have negatively impacted Miss A’s loan agreement or 
credit file. And I can’t see they did. I think the solutions agreed by Creation appear to meet 
all of the FCA’s guidance and requirements. However, the subsequent six-month agreement 
did mean Miss A was now in arrears, despite Creation agreeing to that.
Once that agreement finished, Creation wrote to Miss A on multiple occasions. They wanted 
to review her circumstances again in order to agree a way forward. Creation’s records show 
Miss A responded to their letters and in June 2021 a payment plan was agreed. But as 
arrears had already arisen, Creation decided to sell Miss A’s debt to another business.
I’ve carefully considered the loan agreement between Creation and Miss A. Part 10 says 
“We may assign or securitise any of our rights under this agreement and/or any amounts 
owing under this agreement without notice to you”. In simple terms, this allows Creation to 
sell Miss A’s outstanding debt. This is commonplace and is generally used where there’s 
been a breach of the original agreement. And because Miss A had arrears due to the 
subsequent six-month suspension of repayments, I believe Creation were able to do that. 
Creation have explained that the settlement figure given to Miss A in August 2021 reflected a 
rebate of interest and charges in the event Miss A settled the loan early. But she didn’t do 
that here. Fixed term loans of this nature normally include the interest for the full term 
calculated at the outset. Repayments are then calculated by dividing the total amount 
(including interest) over the term of the loan. So, when Creation sold Miss A’s debt, the 
figure transferred was based upon that total figure less anything Miss A had already repaid. 
As Miss A didn’t repay the debt early, the rebate didn’t apply. So, I can’t reasonably find that 
Creation did anything wrong here.
I’ve also considered what happened to cause the business purchasing Miss A’s debt to 
request repayments at a level higher than those agreed by Creation. Creation had confirmed 
the correct monthly payment to the purchasing business. So, from the evidence I’ve seen, I 
can’t reasonably say that this was due to something Creation did wrong.
I appreciate Miss A did wait an extended period before receiving a response to her complaint 
to Creation. But as I’ve explained, this is not something I’m able to consider. And as I’ve also 
explained above, I haven’t found any evidence to suggest Creation did anything wrong or 
treated Miss A unfairly or unreasonably. So, while I do realise Miss A will be disappointed, I 
won’t be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Miss A’s complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman
