DRN-3709369
The complaint
Mr K complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd selling his account and associated 
debt to a debt recovery agency.
What happened
Mr K took out a 5-year loan with Creation in 2018 with fixed monthly payments.
Mr K says he experienced financial difficulties in 2021 following Covid-19 and the sad loss of 
a family member.
Creation assisted Mr K with a payment break between February and May 2021. However, 
after making a contractual payment in June 2021, Mr K couldn’t make the next payment and 
found it necessary to request help from Creation.
Creation agreed to a significantly reduced payment plan but there was a delay completing 
the financial statement and setting it up, which Mr K attributes to Creation. The plan was set 
up in November 2021 and Mr K started to pay the reduced amount.
However, in February 2022, Mr K was shocked to discover Creation had sold his account 
and the associated debt to a debt recovery agency.
Mr K complained to Creation who said they were entitled to do so under the agreement 
terms and conditions.
Mr K complained to our service as he feels Creation’s actions are “utterly wrong”. He is 
concerned about the impact on his credit file and any future lending. Also, that his debt may 
be sold on again and he wants his account brought back to Creation.
Our investigator was satisfied that Creation hadn’t made an error and acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions which Mr K agreed.
As Mr K remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr K and the following is the reason for my decision.
As Mr K suffered a family bereavement and was then impacted by Covid-19, I considered 
him to have characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
(FCA’s) guidance on this topic. So, I looked at his payment record in 2020 and early 2021 
and the support provided by Creation.  I could see that Mr K made regular contractual 
payments throughout 2020, that Creation gave him a Covid-19 payment break in 2021 and 
Mr K’s difficulties started shortly after the end of the support break. 
So, I was satisfied that, prior to Mr K asking for their help in July 2021, Creation had already 
tried to help Mr K by providing support in line with the FCA guidance to support customers 
impacted by Covid-19. 
Also, whilst I could see Mr K previously had an excellent payment record, with regard to Mr 
K’s request for further support, I had to bear in mind that Creation is a business, and it 
wouldn’t be fair to expect them to hold an account open for a significant period without 
contractual payments.
I think it’s clear that after they gave support, Creation was entitled to expect contractual 
payments and Mr K was unfortunately not in a financial position to make them. 
Whilst I can see there was a delay setting up a reduced payment plan and that Mr K feels 
Creation contributed to the delay, the reason Mr K required the plan was because he 
couldn’t afford to pay the contractual amount. And, the reality here is that when Mr K missed 
the first payment he went into arrears and broke the agreement he signed which said:
‘You shall on the signing of this agreement pay us the instalments on the dates specified in 
the agreement. Punctual time of payment, and compliance with your other obligations, is of 
the essence of this agreement. ‘
‘If you fail to make any payment under this agreement by its due date, then, in addition to our 
other rights, we may charge default interest from the due date until the date of actual 
payment at the rate of interest specified in the agreement.’
Also, although the repayment plan was delayed, once it was agreed, it was less than the 
contractual payments. So, as pointed out by the investigator, even if there hadn’t been a 
delay setting up the agreement, arrears would’ve started to accrue because Mr K couldn’t 
pay the contractual amount.
I can understand Mr K’s shock and upset at Creation selling Mr K’s account and the 
associated debt to a debt recovery agency when he was part way through a repayment plan. 
So, I looked closely at the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
I found the agreement states: 
‘If we grant any time or other indulgence to you or to delay enforcing our rights this shall not 
amount to a waiver by us of our rights or of any breach of this agreement by you and shall 
not prevent us thereafter from relying upon our strict rights under this agreement.’
‘We may assign or securitise any of our rights under this agreement and/or any amounts 
owing under this agreement without notice to you.’
So, although I empathise with Mr K’s situation, including his frustration that he didn’t receive 
the letter Creation say they sent him which references the agreement in the small print, I’m 
satisfied Creation’s actions to sell his debt were within the signed agreement. Also, that 
Creation didn’t have an obligation to complete the plan or give notice.
Regarding Mr K’s questions about the fairness of Creation’s action to sell his debt to a debt 
recovery agency part way through a plan, I’m satisfied that Mr K was in arrears, broke the 
agreement and Creation weren’t receiving the contractual payments which they were entitled 
to receive. So, this was a commercial decision and, as our service is not the regulator, I can’t 
tell Creation how to run their business.
So, considering all the above, I can’t see that Creation have acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman
