DRN-4020803
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In June 2012, Mr K bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “G” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of credit 
is £6,000, the first payment due is £161.75 followed by monthly payments of £86.75, the 
total charge for credit is £4,410, a £75 admin fee is included, and the total amount payable is 
£10,485.
On 16 September 2021 Mr K sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the 
system had been misrepresented and there was a breach of contract. In summary he said 
that:

He was told by G that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from 
the system would cover the cost of the loan repayments 

G said he had guaranteed income for 20 years

He would earn 10% per annum tax free

His property value would increase 

The system was maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy
Mr K also said that there had been breaches under the CCA and Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) rules, and the relationship between Creation and himself was unfair under s.140A 
because either Creation or G:

Failed to undertake a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment

Failed to supply pre contractual information, and where information was provided, he 
wasn’t given any time to consider it

Failed to provide Mr K with a cancellation notice

Conducted a high-pressure sale

Didn’t disclose payment of any commission made and/or received 
Creation responded to the complaint on 9 November 2021 in its final response, it considered 
Mr K had brought his complaint outside of the time limits in the rules we follow.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service on 
18 November 2021.
An investigator considered Mr K’s complaint, she thought that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr K and 
Creation. 
She recommended that Mr K keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr K had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. She also recommended Creation pay £100 compensation for the impact of not 
looking into the s.140A complaint.
Mr K accepted the investigator’s view. I can’t see we received a response from Creation, so, 
the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr K’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr K’s s.75 claim on 
9 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr K 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 November 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr K. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 18 November 2021, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr K has told this service that he first came into contact with G when a leaflet was dropped 
through his letter box containing information about free solar panels. So, he asked G to 
attend his property, however G’s representative told him he couldn’t have free solar panels, 
but if he bought them with finance the cost of the system would be fully paid for by the FIT 
payments and electricity savings he would receive, and he wouldn’t be financially worse off.
Mr K has said he had no interest in solar panels until he saw the leaflet, and I haven’t seen 
any other evidence he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr K to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
I’ve considered Mr K’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
We asked Mr K to provide all of the documents he had from the point of sale, Mr K was able 
to provide an order form for the system, but not a copy of a contract. The order form doesn’t 
include the likely financial benefits of the system. As I said I haven’t seen a copy of the 
contract, however based on the evidence in front of me, there doesn’t seem to be a way for 
Mr K to have been able to compare his total costs against the financial benefits he was 
allegedly being promised. 
Mr K has said the financial benefits were discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. I’ve looked at a copy of G’s website from July 2012, on the 
‘Home page’, it includes the following statement:
‘Are you eligible? To be eligible for FREE solar panels you must:

Own your own home 

Have a south facing roof’
A link is included, to see if the property is suitable. As I set out above the first contact Mr K 
had with G was a leaflet dropped through his letter box about free solar panels. I think the 
website supports this part of his testimony.
The website also includes a ‘Solar Loans’ page, under the heading ‘Want your own Solar 
Panels’ G explains that they offer a range of payment options, for one package G describes 
that generally the tariff payments and electricity savings offset the monthly instalments of an 
agreement, G goes on to say:
‘This would mean your system being self-financing over the 10 year period, where you can 
then enjoy the final 15 years of tariff payments and substantially reduced bills with no 
outgoings’
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and how 
it would cover the repayments of finance agreements, it’s likely this would have been a 
central part of G’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also strongly 
supports Mr K’s testimony that G’s representative told him, if he bought the system with 
finance, it would be fully paid for by his FIT payments and electricity savings. 
So, I find what Mr K’s said believable, I think G’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that the benefits would be a key reason 
to purchase the system, and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT 
scheme would have been a central part of the conversation. 
Given the documents I’ve seen don’t contain information about the benefits, Mr K would 
have looked to G’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, 
what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. And as I’ve said I 
think the website supports Mr K’s testimony that he was told by G’s representative the 
system would be self-funding.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr K said happened, or the 
documentation supplied. However, with no prior interest in solar panels before receiving the 
leaflet from G, Mr K left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a 
monthly repayment of £86.75, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest, and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr K’s account of what he was told by G, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from G. This is further supported by G’s website.
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,041 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr K’s 
system was not performing as expected, but his system has not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think G’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr K’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think G’s 
representative would have known that Mr K’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr K.
Considering Mr K’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, G’s website and that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely G 
gave Mr K a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr K was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr K went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr K’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mr K in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr K 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr K’s s.75 complaint and his other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t 
stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.  
Fair compensation
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr K and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr K a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of G’s assurances. That is, that Mr K’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr K received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr K received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr K 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr K has recently told us that his loan has now 
run to full term, and he has repaid it in full. Therefore, Mr K will only have one option that’s 
tenable as opposed to the 4 the investigator recommended.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s refusal to look at Mr K’s s.140A complaint, caused him 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr K £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr K’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr K has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A 

Use Mr K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr K should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr K 

Pay Mr K £100 for trouble and upset caused
*Where Mr K has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman
