DRN-3351808
The complaint
Mrs B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s handling of her Catalogue 
Shopping Account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them in detail 
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.

Mrs B said she had made payments to her account on time. But she discovered 
around April 2020 that missed payments were incorrectly being reported to credit 
agencies.

Mrs B said she wanted to pay off the balance on her account. But because of the 
issues, she had been provided an incorrect remaining balance and was worried that 
would affect her ability to apply for any further credit elsewhere 

Mrs B has also raised issues regarding Creation not updating her account to her 
married name.

Creation said Mrs B had missed a payment in April 2020 by paying late, so the 
reporting of a late payment for that month was correct.

Creation did however acknowledge two payments made by Mrs B in April 2020, took 
nearly a month to be allocated correctly in its system. So, it would remove any 
negative reporting after April 2020 from Mrs B’s credit file.

Mrs B was unhappy with Creation’s response, so she brought her complaint to our 
service
Our Investigator said he had seen sufficient information to persuade him a payment was 
missed in April 2020. So, Creation had been fair to report this to credit reference agencies. 
He said that around October 2020, Creation had told its internal credit team to remove any 
negative reporting for May 2020. But this meant the payments had been incorrectly reported 
up until this time – which he had seen in credit reports provided by Mrs B.
Our investigator said he wasn’t persuaded the issues had affected Mrs B’s ability to apply for 
further credit. But he did think it had caused Mrs B distress. He also said he’d seen Mrs B 
had raised the issues regarding her name with Creation several times, but this had not been 
actioned. He recommended Creation pay Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience.
Creation and Mrs B accepted our investigator’s recommendation.
Further developments
Mrs B later returned to our service as she said the missed payment for May 2020 was still 
showing on her credit report. 
Our Investigator said Mrs B has provided copies of Credit Reports from two different 
agencies that show the missed payment for May 2020 was still showing as recently as June 
2021. So, he was persuaded that while Creation had instructed their credit team to remove 
the missed payment, it hadn’t been actioned.
Our investigator recommended Creation pay Mrs B a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
Creation didn’t respond to our investigator. So, the complaint has now passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Its not in dispute that a payment was made late in April 2020. Financial organisations 
have an obligation report a true representation of an account. So I don’t think 
Creation have acted unreasonably in reporting this to credit agencies. 

However, Creation accepted a further payment for May 2020 should not have been 
reported. But I’ve seen a copy of Mrs B’s credit report from two different reporting 
agencies, that shows the incorrect payment was still being reported in June 2021 – 
around a year after the initial issue.

I’ve not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me this one missed payment alone 
would affect Mrs B’s ability to obtain credit. But I do think it would have caused 
ongoing concern that it remained on her credit file incorrectly, particularly after our 
service’s involvement and Creation’s reassurance it would be removed

I’ve not seen any evidence to show the payment has been amended to date, but for 
avoidance of doubt, Creation should do as it said it would do in October 2020 and 
remove the incorrectly reported missed payment from May 2020 from Mrs B’s credit 
report if it has not already done so

With the above in mind I agree with our investigator that Creation should pay Mrs B a 
further £100 compensation, taking the total award to £200. I think this is within a 
reasonable range to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs B has been 
caused.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Creation to:

Pay Mrs B £200 compensation

Ensure all adverse credit information regarding the May 2020 missed payment is 
removed from Mrs B’s credit report
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs B’s complaint.
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do as I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman
