 
 
DRN-5194297 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs R is unhappy Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) have charged interest on her 
buy-now-pay-later transaction (BNPL).  
 
Mrs R is represented in this matter by her husband, but for ease I will refer only to Mrs R 
throughout, as it is her agreement with Creation. 
What happened 
Mrs R has a running account credit agreement with Creation which is used for buying goods 
or services from a specified retailer (Company C).  
 
On 9 July 2023 Mrs R purchased goods from Company C and, after paying a deposit, Mrs R 
used the BNPL method of payment for the remaining cost of the goods, which was £689.50.  
 
The BNPL agreement had a Special Offer Date of 9 July 2024. If Mrs R paid £689.50 by this 
date, then she would not incur any interest on that sum.  
 
Mrs R says she asked Company C when she needed to make her payment by and 
Company C gave her the wrong date - so she did not pay £689.50 by the Special Offer Date. 
Creation then applied £206.16 of interest to Mrs R’s account.  
 
On 2 August 2024 Mrs R paid the amount of £689.50 to Creation, but the interest applied still 
needed to be paid.  
 
Creation did not uphold Mrs R’s complaint as they said Mrs R had been given enough 
information about the Special Offer Date for this transaction.  
 
Our Investigator concluded Creation had not done anything wrong. They said there was 
nothing to suggest Creation had given Mrs R incorrect information and suggested Mrs R 
approach Company C directly if she had any concerns with what they had told her.   
 
Mrs R disagreed. She said it was not her fault as she had relied on the information  
Company C had told her, and the interest charged was money needed for food and the 
family. Mrs C also let us know that Creation were sending letters for the outstanding sum 
which she did not believe they should pay. Mrs C told us the matter was creating a great 
deal of stress.  
 
Mrs R has recently told us, that to avoid further problems, she has now cleared the 
outstanding balance on her account. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, I have taken 
into account any relevant law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and (where appropriate) what is considered to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.  
 
It is not disputed that Mrs R did not pay for the goods in full by the Special Offer Date, so 
under the terms of the agreement Creation were entitled to apply interest to the account.  
 
Mrs R says it was Company C that told her the wrong date for when the payment needed to 
be made to avoid interest being applied. I recognise Mrs R’s frustration with Company C, but 
Company C are separate to Creation, so I cannot hold Creation responsible for anything 
Company C have done here. So it may be that Mrs R has a separate complaint against 
Company C directly. I can only consider Creation’s actions under this complaint.  
 
In accordance with fundamental regulatory obligations, standards and good practice I would 
expect Creation to treat their customer fairly and provide them with clear information at the 
right time to be able to make an informed decision.  
 
Mrs S was familiar with this method of payment, so I think it’s fair to say she knew it was 
important to pay the amount due before the Special Offer Date.  
 
Mrs S approached Company C to check the Special Offer Date, but there is nothing to 
suggest she contacted Creation directly about it when the time was approaching. I’ve 
therefore considered what information was available to Mrs R before the Special Offer Date 
in question.  
 
Creation said they wrote to Mrs R on 11 January 2024 to let her know when her BNPL 
period was going to end, and when she needed to make her payment by to avoid any 
interest on this purchase.  
 
Unfortunately Creation do not hold a copy of this letter, but they have instead provided a 
sample letter to show what information it would have contained and provided an internal 
record that the letter was sent on 11 January 2024 to Mrs R’s address – which is the same 
address as the one Mrs R has shared with this service, so I think it’s fair to say this was the 
right address. It is difficult to know if Mrs R received the letter or not, but I think Creation 
more likely than not sent this to her and I would be unable to hold Creation responsible for 
any possible issues with the postal service.   
 
Creation have shown Mrs R signed up to the Online Account Manager (OAM) on 19 
December 2023 and the Creation App on 8 May 2022. Creation have explained Mrs R would 
have been able to see, through these channels, information including the Special Offer Date; 
balance; payment dates; and be able to make payments to the account. So I think relevant 
information about her transactions was available to Mrs R if she wanted to check her 
account, and find out when she needed to make her payments by.  
 
Mrs R’s statements dated 17 May 2024 and 17 June 2024 both set out that the BNPL for the 
goods in question would need to have the goods paid for in full by 9 July 2024. So I think 
Mrs R would have been able to know from her statements what payment was due and by 
when in order to avoid interest being applied. Creation have said it does not appear Mrs R 
has opened her statements, but I can’t fairly say Creation have done anything wrong here as 
there is a responsibility on customers to check their own statements.  
 
Overall, in the circumstances, I think information about the Special Offer Date was available 
to Mrs R to show how much she needed to pay, and by when, to avoid paying interest. I 
 
 
therefore haven’t found anything to persuade me Creation have acted unfairly in this 
particular case.  
 
I understand this has been upsetting for Mrs R and her family and she has said managing 
the interest paid to the account has caused some financial challenges for them which I am 
sorry to hear. If Mrs R requires support and does not know where to start, the government 
backed MoneyHelper service could help her find a way forward.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs R’s complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2025. 
  
 
Kristina Mathews 
Ombudsman 
 
