 
 
DRN-4837010 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Ms D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) have charged her interest 
and late payment fees on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) plan she wasn’t aware she had with 
them. 
What happened 
In Nov 2022 Ms D bought a TV for £1,399. She says she was unaware she had entered into 
a credit agreement with Creation to pay for the goods. She was, therefore, surprised to find 
that Creation started charging her interest and late payment fees when they didn’t receive 
payment for the TV within the BNPL interest free period. She said she’d never received a 
copy of the credit agreement, never entered into credit agreements and hadn’t been warned 
that payments were to be taken. 
Creation didn’t uphold Ms D’s complaint. They explained that Ms D had signed the credit 
agreement in store and that statements sent to her in June and July 2023 explained that the 
BNPL interest free term was coming to an end. They didn’t think they were, therefore, 
unreasonable to apply and charge interest and late payment fees when the full balance 
wasn’t paid in time. 
Our investigator thought that B had been reasonable to charge interest and late payment 
fees, but she thought Creation should compensate Ms D for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when they failed to address questions Ms D had raised with them. Creation agreed 
to pay £200 in compensation, but Ms D was still dissatisfied. She wanted the interest 
removed and she explained that she still didn’t know how much Creation were seeking to 
charge her.  
Ms D’s complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know it will disappoint Ms D, but I agree with our investigator’s opinion. I’ll explain why. 
 
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
 
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
 
Ms D paid for the TV in November 2023 but as she hadn’t paid when she took receipt of it, 
she must have been aware that a payment would have been due. In the absence of any 
 
 
information to the contrary it seems likely that the payment would have been made through 
the BNPL agreement she signed in November 2022. 
 
While I understand Ms D’s explanation that she thought she was signing for a care package I 
think it reasonable that she should have checked what she was signing and have ensured 
she received copies. I’ve seen a copy of the nine-month BNPL agreement. That explained 
that if full payment was received by 20 August 2023 no interest would be charged. As a 
payment wasn’t received by that date, I don’t think Creation were unreasonable to charge 
interest at the rate specified in the credit agreement and to charge late payment fees when 
payments weren’t received. They’ve provided screen shots that suggest statements were 
sent to Ms D in June and July 2023 and having seen similar statements before I know they 
would have explained that the BNPL term was due to expire, and interest would be charged 
if payment wasn’t received. While I understand that Ms D says she didn’t receive those 
statements it wouldn’t be fair for me to hold Creation responsible for failings in the postal 
service. Overall, I think Creation were fair to apply interest and charges in line with the terms 
of the agreement. 
 
I don’t think Creation helped Ms D to understand what was going on. They failed, for 
instance, to respond to her request for interest to be suspended and they didn’t give Ms D 
the details of the case handler they said she had. I can understand that those issues would 
have caused Ms D some distress and inconvenience. She’s explained that it’s had an impact 
on her health and it’s clear that she sent several emails and responses didn’t cover the 
issues she’d asked to be looked at. In the circumstances, I think Creation should pay her 
£200 in compensation. 
 
Ms D is also confused about how much is left to pay on the account so Creation should send 
her a statement of account that sets that out. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve given above, I uphold this complaint in part and tell Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Ms D £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Creation should also send Ms D a statement of account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2024. 
  
 
Phillip McMahon 
Ombudsman 
 
