DRN-2868797
The complaint
Mr G complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) misled him about the end date 
of the buy now pay later (BNPL) promotional period for a purchase he financed through it. 
This meant he was charged interest. 
Mr G’s also unhappy he was sent arrears notifications after making a payment. He says this 
has impacted his mental health and wellbeing and he feels Creation hasn’t adequately 
compensated him. He’d like it to pay him £5,000.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. But I’d like to reassure Mr G 
and Creation that I’ve read and considered everything I’ve been provided in its entirety. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Creation has already fairly resolved it for these reasons:

Mr G says he thought the due date at the bottom of the statement notification email 
was the date the cash price of £699.99 needed to be paid in full to avoid interest 
being charged. He feels this was misleading and he would have expected to be 
notified of the BNPL end date. 

I thank Mr G for forwarding the email which I’ve carefully reviewed. I can see why on 
first glance it could have caused confusion. But as the ‘Payment Due Date explained’ 
section in the email sets out –
 “If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to 
advise when your first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL end 
date will have been provided at the time of purchase, you will receive a 
reminder 30-40 days prior to the end date plus details are available to you in 
your Online Account Manager.” 
The email is accurate in that it informs Mr G when his first payment is due 
(6 September 2020). But this is separate to the BNPL end date.

I’m also mindful this email is a notification that Mr G’s statement is available to view 
online. Account statements contain important information and I consider it reasonable 
to expect customers to check them regularly. If they’re experiencing any difficulties in 
accessing this information, I’d also reasonably expect customers to flag this with the 
business.  

I’ve looked at Mr G’s statements for June and July 2020. Under ‘Important 
Information’, they state –
“The Buy Now Pay period is due to expire shortly. If your income has been 
impacted or you expect your income will be affected as a result of the 
coronavirus outbreak you may request a 3 month extension to the Buy Now 
Pay Later period…
...
If you are not affected by the coronavirus outbreak and or do not want to 
extend the Special Offer Period the Buy Now Pay Later period for your 
EXPRESS D DELIVERY ONLY is due to end 16/08/2020. If you pay the full 
amount of £699.99 by this date, you will not pay any interest on this purchase. 
After the Buy Now Pay Later period has ended your payment the amount for 
this purchase will be £40.75 per month starting on 06/09/2020.”
I consider Creation reasonably notified and reminded Mr G of the BNPL end date in 
advance by providing this information on his statement. 

I can see Creation has acknowledged it could have done more with regards to the 
wording in the notification email. I don’t think this means it accepts it didn’t provide 
Mr G with information about the end date of the BNPL promotion period. I don’t 
consider Creation intentionally misled Mr G about the end date of the BNPL 
promotional period. As I’ve set out above, I think this information was clear on his 
statements. In the circumstances, I consider Creation’s gesture to refund the interest 
when it was correctly charged to be more than reasonable.

I’ve next thought about Mr G’s concerns regarding the arrears and the impact this 
had on his wellbeing. I understand the first direct debit amount of £40.75 was in the 
process of being collected when Mr G phoned Creation to make a payment, and he 
paid the remaining balance. Unfortunately, the direct debit was returned unpaid. 
It isn’t clear why this happened, but I’ve not seen enough to persuade me Creation 
could have known in advance the direct debit would fail. So, I don’t think Creation 
can be fairly held responsible for Mr G’s account going in arrears.

I accept Mr G was distressed to find out he’d received arrears letters – first for £40.75 
and then £65.75 – when he says he’d spoken to Creation and agreed to make the 
outstanding payment by the end of October 2020. I acknowledge what he’s told us 
about how these letters made him feel. The regulator requires businesses to send 
arrears notices to customers when their account is in arrears. Even if a business 
agrees the payment can be made late, as Mr G suggests happened here, the 
requirement doesn’t go away. That said, I accept its possible expectations could 
have been managed better here if this wasn’t made clear.

Given Mr G’s account was in arrears due to a failed direct debit, I don’t consider 
Creation acted unfairly in writing to him about it. After the initial notice of arrears in 
September 2020, a further letter was sent in October 2020. I’m satisfied the 
additional £25 charge was added in line with the terms and conditions Mr G agreed 
to when he opened the account. But, in addition to refunding the interest charged on 
the BNPL purchase, Creation has waived the £25 charge and has refunded any 
additional amount Mr G paid over the cash price of the purchase. It’s also removed 
any adverse information on his credit file in relation to the arrears.

I know Mr G feels very strongly about the complaint and thinks the steps Creation 
has taken don’t go far enough in recognizing the distress he experienced. I accept 
finding out he’d missed the BNPL end date would have caused Mr G a degree of 
distress. I also accept the arrears letters would have heightened his anxiety levels. 
But when thinking about awarding compensation, I’d have to be satisfied Creation’s 
actions which affected his wellbeing were unfair or unreasonable. And I don’t think 
they were – a payment wasn’t received by the BNPL promotional period end date, 
and the account was in arrears due to a failed direct debit. Based on what I’ve seen, 
I don’t think there are sufficient grounds to direct Creation to pay an award in the 
region Mr G’s requested.
I recognise Mr G is likely to disagree with my findings, but I consider the steps Creation has 
already taken – refund of interest and any additional payment over the cash price, waiver of 
the £25 charge, and removal of adverse information on his credit file – to recognise any 
upset it may have caused him due to a misunderstanding is fair in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. So, I won’t be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has already fairly 
resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman
