 
 
DRN-5473847 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr I complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd defaulted his account after he’d repaid 
the balance. 
 
What happened 
Mr I says he called Creation to pay off the account and close it. He says he paid the amount 
specified, but the following day he was notified about a missed payment which was then 
recorded on his credit file. Mr I says Creation told him that the advisor on the call should 
have told him a direct debit was due within two days. 
 
Creation says Mr I’s direct debit for November 2023 was returned as unpaid and an arrears 
letter was sent to him. It says Mr I called on 5 December 2023 and paid his arrears and most 
of the remaining balance. However, Creation says that December’s direct debit was also 
returned, another arrears letter was sent, and a £30 late fee was applied. It says a default 
notice was then sent on 22 February 2024, a default was subsequently applied, and the 
account was transferred to a debt collection agency (DCA) on 26 April 2024. 
 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that Mr I had 
been given misleading information in the call and did not receive correspondence about the 
outstanding debt due to moving house. She said it would be fair for Creation to remove the 
default as settlement of the complaint. 
 
Creation responded to say, in summary, that it could not have known that the direct debit 
would fail in December, and it issued several letters notifying Mr I of the outstanding debt. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have listened to the call Mr I had with Creation on 5 December 2023, and he says he wants 
to clear the account with the payment he makes. Mr I also adds that he doesn’t want 
anything to affect his credit history. Once the advisor has taken the payment, he says he will 
also take off the additional small interest charge and that Mr I won’t need to pay anything 
else going forwards. 
 
The following day December’s direct debit is returned, but even though Mr I hasn’t been able 
to provide his bank statements for the month, I don’t consider it would be unreasonable for 
him to believe that it was returned due to the payment he’d already made. I say that because 
the advisor makes no mention of the direct debit on the call and Mr I was assured that the 
account would close as soon as the payment cleared. 
 
 
 
I also find it more likely than not that Mr I would have made the additional payment of £347 if 
he realised it was outstanding because: 
 
• 
It was a small proportion of the £3,927 he’d paid to close the account; 
• 
He was clear on the call that he didn’t want his credit file to be adversely affected. 
 
I accept that Creation sent him both texts and letters about the outstanding debt, but I’ve 
seen evidence to show Mr I had moved house and he said he did not receive the letters. As 
Mr I believed his Creation account was closed, he would have had no reason to inform it of 
his new address. 
 
Equally, although Mr I acknowledges that he received text messages, he says he assumed it 
was because his account had not been updated and that they were computer generated. As 
the advisor told Mr I during the call that it may continue to contact him because the account 
had been in arrears, I don’t find it unreasonable that Mr I ignored these messages. 
 
In summary, I’m satisfied that, if Mr I had been given the correct information during the call, 
he would have ensured the correct amount was paid in order to close the account, as he 
believed he had done at the time. 
 
My final decision 
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should remove 
the default, and associated adverse information, from Mr I’s account and ensure the debt 
collection agency does the same. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2025. 
  
 
Amanda Williams 
Ombudsman 
 
