DRN-3296796
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to remind him of the date by 
which he needed to pay off his buy now pay later loan to avoid interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I am satisfied that Mr L was made aware of the date by which he had to pay off the loan 
before he would have to pay interest. The credit agreement states: 
“The Buy Now Pay Later period for your [X] is due to end on 10/2/2021. 
Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the payments do 
not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £ by this date you won't be charged any 
interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the credit amount due, you will 
have to make monthly repayments of £24.49 starting on 10/03/2021. Any balance left to pay 
after this date will incur interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified in your 
credit agreement.”
I believe this made it clear to him at the time of purchase that he had to pay off the balance 
by 20 March 2021 to avoid an interest charge. However, it seems Mr L relied on Creation 
reminding him of the due date closer to the time he was due to pay off the account.
I can see from the statements made available to him online that he was told of the due date. 
I have reviewed the statements issued by Creation in December 202020 and January 2021. 
These state that the buy now pay later period is due to expire on 10 February 2021 and if the 
outstanding sum is not paid interest will be chargeable. It also offered to consider a three-
month extension if his income had been impacted by Coronavirus.
I note Mr L says he didn’t get this information. He has submitted copies of the two 
communications he received from Creation which do not mention the ending of the buy now 
pay later period. However, what he has submitted are the covering emails which contain 
links to the actual statements in which the relevant information is contained. 
I am satisfied that Creation did make Mr L aware of the date by which he had to pay off the 
loan both at the outset and shortly before the due date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
