DRN-2916214
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr M’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT)
scheme. But Mr M’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and he has not
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman
