DRN-3470943
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) started charging interest at 
the end of a buy now pay later period without warning him that it would do so.
What happened
On 29 December 2019 Mr S took out a loan with Creation for a purchase he had made. The 
loan was provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant if Mr S repaid the loan in full 
on or before 14 February 2020 then he wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Otherwise, interest 
would be applied from 29 December 2019 – the date of the loan. 
Mr S didn’t repay the loan in full on or before 14 February 2021 and so Creation added 
interest to the loan from 29 December 2019 and commenced collection of £134.23 a month 
from Mr S’ bank account (by way of direct debit).
Mr S complained to Creation about what had happened. It said that it had sent a reminder on 
15 January 2021 that the buy now pay later period would end on 14 February 2021. Mr S 
said that he didn’t receive this reminder, or any other correspondence from Creation.
Mr S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was 
satisfied that Creation had sent a reminder on 15 January 2021 (as it said it had) and one on 
18 August 2020. And because of this he wasn’t persuaded that Mr S’ complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr S didn’t accept the investigator’s findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear Mr S has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr S will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Creation was under a duty to send a reminder to Mr S as to when his buy now pay later 
period was due to end. The Financial Conduct Authority’s Handbook says, at CONC 
6.7.16A, that in cases such as Mr S’ a reminder should be sent in an “appropriate medium”. 
As the investigator noted, Creation isn’t able to provide a copy of any letter sent to Mr S, but 
it has provided a template letter and an extract from its internal systems indicating that such 
a letter was sent on 15 January 2021 and 18 August 2020. Its records indicate that it had the 
correct address for Mr S. On balance therefore I think it more likely than not that letters were 
sent to remind Mr S as to when the buy now pay later period would end. 
I believe too that it wasn’t inappropriate for Creation to contact Mr S by letter rather than by 
email and both letters were sent in good time, the 18 August 2020 letter being sent seven 
and half months after the loan was entered into and six months before the buy now pay later 
period was due to end and the 15 January 2021 letter being sent one month before the buy 
now pay later period was due to end. 
I accept that it’s possible – although unlikely – that the letters weren’t safely delivered or that 
Mr S overlooked them. But Creation’s obligation was to send them, and I’m satisfied it did 
that.
On a sperate note I can see that Mr S disputes the buy now pay later end date, suggesting it 
should have been 4 March 2021 rather than 14 February 2021. But I’m not persuaded this is 
material to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because Mr S submits he has suffered 
financially because Creation didn’t notify him of when his buy now pay later period would 
end, not because this date was set by Creation as being 14 February 2021 rather than 
4 March 2021.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, but I’m satisfied that Creation did what it was required 
to do, and what I would expect it to do, in bringing to Mr S’ attention his buy now pay later 
period end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman
