DRN-3280566
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd started charging interest at the end of 
a buy now pay later period without warning her that it would do so.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs G made a purchase with the help of a loan from Creation. The loan was 
provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant that, if Mrs G repaid the loan in full on 
or before 19 May 2021, she would not have to pay any interest. Otherwise, interest would be 
applied from the date of the loan.  
Mrs G did not repay the loan by the end of the buy now pay later period and Creation wrote 
to her to say that it was adding interest of more than £800 to the loan. 
Mrs G complained to Creation about what had happened. It said that it had sent a reminder 
in April 2021 that the buy now pay later period was coming to an end. Mrs G said she had 
not received any such reminder. 
Mrs G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
was satisfied that Creation had sent a reminder as it said it had. He noted too that the end of 
the buy now pay later period had been set out in the credit agreement itself and in a letter 
sent to Mrs G when she took out the credit. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld.
Mrs G did not accept the investigator’s recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G does not dispute that the buy now pay later period on her credit agreement ended on 
19 May 2021. She says though that Creation should have reminded her that it was coming to 
an end. 
I agree that Creation was under a duty to send a reminder as Mrs G says. The Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Handbook says, at CONC 6.7.16A, that in cases such as Mrs G’s a 
reminder should be sent in an “appropriate medium”. As the investigator noted, Creation is 
not able to provide a copy of any letter sent to Mrs G, but it has provided a template letter 
and an extract from its internal systems indicating that it was sent. Its records indicate that it 
had the correct address for Mrs G. On balance therefore I think it more likely than not that a 
letter was sent to remind Mrs G that the buy now pay later period was coming to an end. I 
believe too that it was appropriate to contact Mrs G by letter.
I accept that it’s possible – although unlikely – that the letter was not safely delivered or that 
Mrs G overlooked it. But Creation’s obligation was to send it, and I am satisfied it did that.
Mrs G also said that the retailer had agreed a refund of £99 in respect of items she had 
returned. I am satisfied that this was applied on 23 September 2020.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs G’s complaint and do not 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
