DRN-3963204
The complaint
Mrs O has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 7 November 2014, Mrs O bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The credit agreement was 
signed on 14 November 2014. The loan amount was for £10,750 and the total amount 
payable under the agreement was £16,675.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £138.96.
Mrs O complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs O on 11 August 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 20 October 2021. Creation considered Mrs O had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs O brought her complaint to this service on 25 November 2021 as 
she was unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs O asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs O’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs O and 
Creation. 
On 13 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs O keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs O had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs O accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation have now had over a year to respond to the 
investigator’s findings had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs O’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs O’s s.75 
claim on 20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs O brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 25 
November 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs O. The loan was still 
running when the complaint was brought to this service and is still running. So, the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 14 November 2014. Mrs O brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 11 August 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an 
agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not 
accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
O. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs O has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs O has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs O to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs O on 14 November 2014, sets out Mrs O’s 
responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the 
loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m 
satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs O’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs O to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs O would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Mrs O has also supplied a copy of the System Performance Estimate document. This sets 
out that the total estimated benefit from the panels in year one is roughly £1000. But Mrs 
O’s monthly repayments towards the agreement were £138.96 and she would be paying 
over £1,650 a year for the loan. So, this document does not support the idea that the 
scheme would be self-funding. 
But the document does not explicitly explain that the figures suggest the scheme would 
not be self-funding. The consumer would have had to closely read the document and work 
that out for themselves. And the consumer would have had do that and make further 
enquiries to see if the first year figures this document provides an estimate for would be 
repeated in subsequent years. 
I have not been given any evidence that shows me how this document was intended to be 
used or how P would have put its contents to Mrs O. And I have noted that Mrs O told us 
that M did not take Mrs O through the document in any detail. Mrs O has alleged the sale 
was conducted in a pressured way and that the representative of M wanted the forms 
signed and posted, so that Mrs O wouldn’t miss out on the deal. So, it’s not clear to me 
that Mrs O did closely read the document or was supported in so doing during the 
meeting. 
However, even had Mrs O read the document I also believe that the significance of the 
figures has not been sufficiently highlighted in the document. And in choosing to provide 
important information in the way they did, I think M ran the risk that a consumer might 
miss this important detail. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs O said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs O left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £138.96, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and 
the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs O’s account of what she was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs O’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,667.52 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
O’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs O’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs O’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs O’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs O.
Considering Mrs O’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs O a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs O’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs O was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs O went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs O’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs O in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs O and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs O and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs O a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs O’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs O received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs O received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs O may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs O’s monthly repayments would
reduce, meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs O made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs O’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs O should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs O. 

Give Mrs O the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan 
amount, recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a 
refund of the overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs O
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs O’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
