DRN-2928264
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mrs M bought solar panels for her home in December 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Creation didn’t respond at first, so this case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision. 
Then, in October 2021, Creation offered to pay Mrs M £5,344.03 in full and final settlement 
of her claim (which consisted of a refund, interest on the refund at 8% a year, and £100 for 
her inconvenience), without admitting liability. I am told that Mrs M accepted that offer, but 
after that she heard nothing more from Creation, and the compensation has still not been 
paid.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Creation has made an offer and Mrs M has accepted it, I think it would be fair to hold 
Creation to that offer, and so I will order Creation to honour it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Mrs M £5,344.03.
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mrs M has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, then it 
must also pay simple interest on the compensation at 8 percent a year from that date to the 
date of payment.
Creation withheld £280.11 in income tax on the interest element of its offer. Creation should 
also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if appropriate. Mrs M should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the 
approach it has taken, and both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more 
about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
