 
 
DRN-3966648 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr C has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr C throughout.  
What happened 
In December 2014 Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£6,695 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £10,384.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £86.54. I understand the system was installed in January 2015.  
In September 2021 Mr C sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He said S told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said S told him he’d receive a guaranteed income for 20 
years and that he’d earn up to 10% per year tax free. He said S told him the system would 
be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy; his energy bills would go down; and his 
property value would increase.  
Mr C said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought S had likely told Mr C the 
system would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. 
They didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they 
thought S had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship 
between Mr C and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the 
agreement. They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and 
assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mr C pays no more than 
that, and he keeps the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact 
of Creation not investigating the s.140A claim.  
Mr C agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
The section 75 (“s.75”) complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr C’s s.75 claim 
in November 2021. Mr C brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service in 
January 2022. So his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our service’s jurisdiction. 
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the “LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a 
complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction.  
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C.  
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr C says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr C says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr C to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out what savings Mr C could expect to make from 
the system.  
None of the documents we’ve been supplied show any estimates of the savings Mr C would 
make. I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mr C to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised.  
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr C had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before S contacted him. He said S knocked on his door to sell the panels. Mr C has said he 
only agreed to the purchase because S told him the system would be self-funding, and that 
he’d receive a return on his investment. He said S told him they’d pay for themselves within 
5 years. Mr C said the financial benefits were discussed despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. He said he retired from his main job in 2004 and at the 
time he purchased the system he was working part time. I’m mindful that it would be difficult 
to understand why, in this particular case, Mr C would have agreed to the installation if his 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly.  
I think Mr C would have looked to S’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. 
I’ve also looked at S’s website from around the time Mr C bought the system. I can see it 
promoted the system as enabling customers to generate their own electricity to avoid the 
uncertainty of rising energy costs. It said the customer would be able to create their own 
energy with no price increases for 20 years and an index linked tax free investment. So I 
think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the 
return on the investment, it’s likely this would have been a central part of S’s conversation 
when selling the product. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,000 per year. But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mr C’s system 
achieved the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the 
agreement. I therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. I think the 
salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement during its term. 
Considering Mr C’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the website; and 
that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr C a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of what he was told by S credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had S not given the reassurances he said he received.  
 
 
 
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. I note Mr C has 
mentioned S said the panels would pay for themselves within 5 years and that he initially 
thought the agreement was for that long. He’s accepted our investigator’s recommendation 
to have the panels self-funding within the loan term. And I think it’s more likely than not that 
the system was sold as being self-funding within the loan term. So I think the loan term is the 
fairer period to use.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr C will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has caused Mr C some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mr C also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr C’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.   
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr C has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A 
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr C 
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr C to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early. 
• 
Pay Mr C an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr C has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
