DRN-4269159
The complaint
Mr N complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) charged interest on a loan 
following the end of a Buy Now Pay Later (“BNPL”) promotional period without warning him 
they would do so. He also complains about the overall service provided by Creation. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr N purchased a sofa at a cost of around £1,100 from a retailer. He 
also purchased an insurance policy at a cost of £160. He paid a deposit of £300 and 
financed the remainder via a credit agreement with Creation. 
The agreement gave a BNPL option which allowed him to delay paying for 52 weeks without 
paying any interest as long as he paid the full balance of £978 by 24 November 2020.
Mr N didn’t make any payments during the BNPL period but he says it was always his 
intention to pay the full balance by the end to avoid any interest being applied. In December 
2020, he made a payment of £818. Creation said because the full balance wasn’t paid by the 
BNPL end date, they were entitled to apply interest.
Mr N complained he had never received the credit agreement and Creation hadn’t told him 
when the BNPL period would end. He was also unhappy about the overall service from 
Creation including setting up direct debits without his authority and failing to provide him with 
statements. 
Creation said the agreement was clear about the BNPL period. They said an annual 
statement was sent to Mr N as a reminder as to when it was coming to an end but full 
payment wasn’t received. They added as there was an outstanding balance, direct debit 
payments were initiated to be taken from Mr N’s bank account in May 2022. Lastly they said 
there was no evidence Mr N contacted them before the BNPL period came to an end.  
Unhappy with their response, Mr N referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasn’t upheld. She said the agreement and welcome letter 
were clear about the BNPL period and the amount Mr N needed to pay to avoid interest. She 
concluded Creation acted fairly by applying interest. 
Mr N disagreed and maintained his position. He also commented Creation had the incorrect 
email address for him which may explain why he received no correspondence from them. 
In June 2023, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
 
“As a starting point, I’ve referred to the credit agreement, I’m satisfied it clearly sets out a 
number of details including the cost of the sofa, the insurance cost, the total amount payable 
and the amount needed to be paid by the end of the BNPL period otherwise interest would 
be applied if it wasn’t met. Mr N electronically signed this agreement in November 2019 so 
I’m satisfied he was aware of the same. 
In cases involving BNPL agreements, The Financial Conduct Authority’s Handbook says at 
CONC 6.7.16A:
“Where a customer has the benefit of a zero-percentage or low interest, introductory 
or promotional offer that depends on the customer meeting certain conditions, 
a firm must provide notice to the customer reminding them of any action they need to 
take to meet the conditions of the offer and the date by which this action must be 
taken, within a reasonable period before that date, taking account of the time at 
which the information may be most useful to the customer”.
It also goes on to say that notice must be provided in an appropriate medium, be sufficiently 
prominent and take into account any communication preferences by the consumer. So I’ve 
taken this into account when considering this complaint. 
Generally speaking, such reminders of the BNPL period are set out in the account 
statements. Alternatively, some firms may send separate correspondence about it. In this 
case, I’m not satisfied Creation has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate they sent 
notice to Mr N to remind him about the BNPL end date and what he was required to do. 
They said they sent him a statement but according to them, it was dated December 2021. 
That is a year after the BNPL ended so I wouldn’t consider that advanced notice. The other 
correspondence that Creation say was sent to Ms N were also after the BNPL period ended. 
Mr N says he never received a copy of the agreement or any other correspondence from 
Creation but he had always intended to pay the balance by the end of the BNPL period. 
Creation may argue if that was the case, it would’ve been reasonable for him to contact them 
sooner than he did. Whilst I’m inclined to agree, that doesn’t negate their obligation as 
outlined above.  
With the exception of the initial credit agreement, I’ve seen no other satisfactory evidence for 
me to reasonably say Creation gave Mr N sufficient notice the BNPL period was ending.  
Therefore I can’t say they acted fairly or in line with the FCA’s above requirements. 
Evidence shows Mr N made a payment of £818 in December 2020. He says this was the 
amount and the date he believed he needed to pay to satisfy the BNPL. I’m convinced by his 
testimony given the amount he paid and the fact it wasn’t necessarily long after the period 
ended. In the absence of any paperwork and given when the agreement was entered into, 
it’s understandable he forgot the exact amount and the promotional end date. 
It would appear Mr N’s payment in December 2020 was the remaining amount for the sofa 
only and he failed to take into account the cost of the insurance policy. I’m aware he 
disputes agreeing to take out such a policy but I note that wasn’t a point he raised to 
Creation when bringing this complaint to our service. So it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to 
make any comment on that particular issue. He will need to raise it directly with Creation and 
allow them to investigate.
I’m persuaded had Creation correctly notified Mr N the BNPL period was coming to an end 
and the balance he needed to pay, he would’ve done so. I say this because I’m satisfied it 
was always his intention to do so, he had sufficient funds to pay it and his payment in 
December 2020 supports that. So to put things right, I find he should be able to pay the sofa 
and insurance policy without any interest.
Other
I’ve taken into account Mr N’s comments about the level of service by Creation. I won’t 
address every point but I can assure him I’ve considered them all. Instead I’ve thought about 
the overall service and having done so, I agree that it fell below what a reasonable person 
would expect.
He's raised the fact Creation had the incorrect email address for him. Based on the evidence 
presented to me I can see it was missing two digits. I’ve asked Creation to provide evidence 
of the application to determine what email address was given and how Mr N said he 
preferred to be contacted. However this evidence hasn’t been provided. So in the absence of 
any contradictory evidence, I find it’s most likely either Creation or the retailer incorrectly 
inputted Mr N’s email meaning Creation’s correspondence was sent to the wrong email 
which explains why it was never received by Mr N. 
I’ve also seen evidence where Mr N had contacted them to find out about the account as he 
was concerned what was happening and whether he needed to take any further action. 
However on some occasions, I can’t see Creation provided an adequate response, if any at 
all. Mr N says when he made the payment in December 2020 he believed that settled the 
agreement in full. So I can understand his surprise when Creation started taking direct debits 
from his account in May 2022, that’s over two years after the BNPL period came to an end. 
Creation hasn’t provided any explanation about this or the reason for the delay. It’s unclear 
whether this has negatively impacted his credit file. If so, all adverse information about this 
agreement should be removed from Mr N’s credit file.  
Mr N says this situation has caused him much trouble and upset. He was chased by a third 
party company for the debt, sent demand letters, he had concerns about the impact on his 
credit file and he tried to speak to Creation on numerous occasions but without much 
success. Given the likely impact on him, I find Creation should pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Overall I’m not satisfied Creation followed the FCA’s requirements. They failed to sufficiently 
give notice to Mr N that the BNPL period was coming to an end. Had they done so, I believe 
he would’ve paid the outstanding balance in full thereby avoiding the interest.
So to put things right, Creation should rework the account and remove any interest and allow 
Mr N to pay the outstanding balance in full (if not already done so). If after re-working the 
account it is found Mr N has overpaid, these amounts should be refunded to him plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. Also Creation 
should  remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr N’s credit file and pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused”. 
Response to the provisional decision
Mr N accepted the findings. Creation didn’t provide any further comment. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I haven’t been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided to uphold Mr N’s complaint. 
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
-
Rework the account and remove all interest from Mr N’s agreement and allow him to 
pay the outstanding balance in full (if not done so already);
-
Refund any overpayments plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement*;
-
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr N’s credit file;
-
Pay £100 compensation to Mr N for the trouble and upset caused. 
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman
