DRN-4349079
The complaint
Miss C complains about damage caused to her home during the installation of a boiler paid 
for with finance provided by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss C took out a regulated fixed sum loan with Creation to pay for the 
supply and installation of a boiler by a third party, which I will call X. It is not in dispute that 
the installation was botched, and that as a result damage was caused to Miss C’s home. Her 
kitchen cupboard was damaged, brick dust was spread all over the kitchen, and the 
replacement of the flue caused damage to the roof, which in turn caused water to leak into 
her bedroom.
Miss C spent about three months trying to resolve the matter with X, getting nowhere, before 
she lost confidence in X. In May she asked Creation to compensate her under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1975 (which makes the provider of credit liable for a breach of 
contract by the supplier of goods and services paid for with credit).
On 22 September 2022, Creation upheld her claim and offered her £1,250. Believing that the 
repair work would cost her much more than that, Miss C brought this claim to our service. 
She provided photos of the damage, and evidence about what it would cost to repair it. In 
response, Creation told us that Miss C had stopped communicating with X, and had refused 
to allow X to carry  out a site visit to inspect the damage and see what work needed to be 
done.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He was satisfied that the installation had not been 
carried out with reasonable care and skill, and that Creation was liable for that under section 
75. He thought it was reasonable of Miss C to want the remedial work to be carried out by 
another company instead of X, and so he thought that Creation should pay for the cost of 
that work. Based on the quotes and other evidence provided, he thought that a reasonable 
estimate of the total cost would be £2,567.45, plus another £29.99 for a broom which X’s 
engineer had broken during his visit. He did not agree that Creation was liable for a garden 
gate which had been damaged by the wind after the engineer had left it open, nor was it 
liable for some customer service failings by X after the installation.
Miss C accepted that opinion, except that she argued that she should also be compensated 
for the time she had spent cleaning up her kitchen and writing to and phoning X and 
Creation about this matter. She calculated an hourly rate for this. However, our investigator 
did not agree to recommend that Creation pay for this.
Creation did not reply at all. After chasing Creation for a response to his opinion, the 
investigator referred this case for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague did.
Although Creation has not denied that the installation was botched, I have still satisfied 
myself that this is the case by referring to the photos Miss C took of her kitchen. The photos 
make it very clear that the work was not carried out with reasonable care and skill, and 
I have no doubt that this is what has caused the leak.
I agree with our investigator’s view that the damage to the garden gate is too remote from 
the contract to install the boiler to hold Creation liable for that damage under section 75. But 
there is no reason why it should not pay for the rest of the damage (including the broom).
In his decision, our investigator carefully itemised how he arrived at the total repair cost of 
£2,597.44. I don’t need to repeat all of that here; it is enough for me to say that I agree with 
it, and I gratefully adopt it.
I will not award Miss C an hourly rate for her cleaning and correspondence. But I do think 
that it is right that I should award her some compensation for her general inconvenience 
arising from the damage that was caused to her property, and especially for the leak in her 
roof. I think £500 is fair. (I would normally write a provisional decision about that first, to give 
Creation an opportunity to object before I make a final decision. But since Creation did not 
respond to the investigator’s decision, I don’t think it is likely that it would have responded to 
my provisional decision either, and so I have chosen to proceed directly to issuing this final 
decision.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Miss C:

£2,597.44 for the cost of repairing the damage to her home, together with simple 
interest on that sum at the rate of eight percent a year from 22 September 2022 
(being the date of Creation’s final response letter) to the date of settlement; and

£500 for her inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
