DRN-3543560
The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) did not support him when he 
was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card from Creation with a limit of £750. In September 2019, the balance 
was £809.08. Mr B contacted Creation in September 2019 to say he was in financial 
difficulty. Creation agreed to put a ‘hold’ on his account – no payments were needed. They 
sent him a financial statement to complete. Interest and charges continued to be applied. In 
February 2020, a payment plan was agreed for eight months, with monthly payments agreed 
at £44.49. No fees were to be charged but interest was. In June 2020, Mr B broke the plan – 
as he had paid £40 a month, not £44.39. In July 2020, Creation agreed to a payment plan to 
December 2020 – requiring payments of £23.69 a month. Interest was zero with no charges 
or fees. Mr B made the payments. A further plan was agreed in December 2020. In January 
2021, the debt was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA).
Mr B complained that Creation didn’t support him when he needed help. His income was 
affected due to redundancy, and then by the pandemic. He said Creation had continued to 
charge interest and fees – which accounted for the whole of the debt. They’d hassled him 
with phone calls. He said he asked Creation to transfer his debt to a DCA but they’d refused. 
He said the debt should be written off. 
In December 2020, Creation said Mr B’s account had been on hold since January 2020 
while they waited for some financial information from him. They said they couldn’t agree to a 
payment holiday (under the pandemic support scheme) – as his account was in arrears. In 
March 2020, they agreed an eight-month hold. But Mr B hadn’t made the payments needed 
for that arrangement. In July 2020, an interest free arrangement was agreed until December 
2020 – which they then offered to extend if he was still in difficulty. They refunded three 
overlimit fees applied between May 2020 and July 2020 as a gesture of goodwill. Creation 
said they were entitled to charge interest in line with the terms and conditions. On Mr B’s 
complaint about the calls they’d made, they apologised and paid compensation of £50.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt that Creation didn’t act reasonably. 
She thought it was clear that Mr B was in financial difficulty in September 2019 – and so 
Creation should’ve helped him from that date – with a zero interest and fees arrangement, 
rather than later, in July 2020. She could see from Mr B’s statements that he incurred late 
payment and overlimit fees from January 2019 – so that indicated he was in difficulty. When 
he called Creation in September 2019, Mr B completed a financial statement on the phone, 
but Creation then asked him for a benefit entitlement letter. In December 2019, Mr B asked 
that his account be transferred to a DCA, but they refused to do that. He told them he’d 
returned to work. Creation asked for a financial statement again and sent him one. In March 
2020, Creation agreed a payment plan but Mr B didn’t make the necessary payments – it 
needed £44.49 each month and he paid £40. Because of the arrears, Creation couldn’t 
agree to a payment holiday under the Covid-19 support scheme. 
In July 2020 – they agreed a payment plan with payments of £23.63 a month, and Mr B 
made these from then on. The plan was interest free. Our investigator couldn’t see why 
Creation had insisted on receiving a financial statement from Mr B in September 2019 – 
when at other times, they’d completed one on the phone. She asked Creation for more 
information about why that was the case, but they hadn’t responded. She said that Creation 
should refund interest and fees from September 2019. And Creation should pay 
compensation of £75.
On the matter of the calls from Creation, she said they’d responded to Mr B’s complaint 
about that in October 2019 – and Mr B hadn’t referred that complaint to us within six months 
of that date, so that wasn’t something we could look at under our rules.
Mr B agreed with our investigator’s view. Creation didn’t agree. They said their process was 
to ask Mr B for proof of income, and Mr B didn’t provide that. And until he did, they couldn’t 
agree a financial difficulties arrangement – and so, in line with our process, Mr B’s complaint 
was passed to me to look at.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complained about calls. But I note that our investigator said that wasn’t something we 
could look at. Given Mr B has accepted the investigator’s view on this, I don’t propose to 
comment on this aspect in my decision. Instead I shall deal with - whether Creation 
should’ve given him more financial support in September 2019 when he first called them 
about his circumstances.
Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically. The 
Financial Conduct Authority’s guidance on this is:

A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.

Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one 
or more of the following: 
-
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
-
allowing deferment of payment of arrears
-
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time
-
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
And so – I’ve looked at Mr B’s complaint with this guidance in mind.
I can see from Mr B’s statements that in September 2019, he was over his credit limit. And 
before that, he went over his limit every month in 2019 and incurred late payment and 
overlimit fees every month. So – that does suggest he was struggling. I can see he 
contacted Creation in September 2019 and asked for their help as he had lost his job.  
Creation completed a financial statement on the phone and as a result, placed the account 
on ‘hold’ – so no payments were needed. But they also asked him for proof of income and/or 
benefits. Mr B didn’t provide that. I can then see Mr B contacted Creation again in November 
2019 – and said he “was working in the States’ - so he had returned to work. In December 
2019, he told Creation that he ‘was now back at work’. In February 2020, he also told 
Creation he was working again. In March 2020, he said he ‘was working full time’ and could 
afford the lower, agreed monthly payments at that time. It looks like they completed a 
financial statement of income and expenditure on the phone – to be able to work out what Mr 
B could then afford. And then - in July 2020, Creation completed a financial statement on the 
phone - and agreed to a payment plan of £23.63 a month, with zero interest and fees from 
then on.
So – in fairness to Creation - as  Mr B had said he was back at work, I can see why they 
wanted to understand more about his financial circumstances. And I can also see that they 
wrote to him three times in January 2020 and February 2020 to ask for the information. And I 
can’t see that Mr B provided it. 
We’ve asked Creation questions about what happened in August/September 2019. But they 
haven’t responded to our requests for this information. In response to our investigator’s view, 
they said proof of income was required as part of their processes – but that doesn’t explain 
why an income and expenditure form was completed on the phone in March 2020 and July 
2020, but it wasn’t done that way in September 2019.  And so I must make a decision based 
on the information we’ve been given by Creation and Mr B. And where the information I’ve 
got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I must base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is – what’s more likely than not to have happened in all of the 
circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
The FCA’s guidance doesn’t set out exactly what firms should do to establish affordability. 
Each firm will have their own processes. We’ve seen that most firms are happy to go through 
a customer’s income and expenditure on the phone, or if a customer prefers – for it to be 
sent out for completion. I don’t know what Creation’s processes were in that regard, and so 
without that, I can’t say for certain that it wouldn’t have been possible to conclude completion 
on the phone in September 2019.
Mr B has told us he was in financial difficulty as he’d lost his job – in September 2019. And – 
his account shows he was struggling. Creation’s notes in September 2019 say he was 
‘unemployed, on jobseeker’s allowance’; and in October 2019 he told Creation he was out of 
work. But equally - later, Mr B said he’d returned to work. But – we haven’t had any more 
information from Creation about this. So in the absence of that, I think it’s reasonable to 
conclude that on balance, Creation should’ve established that Mr B was in financial difficulty 
in September 2019 and placed him on a payment arrangement at zero interest and fees 
from that time – in line with the FCA’s guidance.
Mr B has said he wanted his account to be passed to a DCA to manage. I can see he did so 
in December 2019 and Creation declined. The notes on Mr B’s account don’t say why they 
did that – but I can see that it was sold to a DCA in January 2021. It would be normal that no 
interest or fees would be charged on an account when that happens. And so - I presume he 
is comfortable with that.
I considered whether Creation should’ve agreed to a payment holiday under the support 
measures available as a result of the pandemic. In April 2020, The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Creation, had to put in place ‘payment 
holidays’ on many credit agreements, including credit cards – to help customers who were 
affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months – 
whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit 
reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support 
was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
But – where a customer’s situation was that they were in longer term difficulty, or had pre-
existing problems prior to the pandemic, then payment holidays under this scheme weren’t 
normally agreed.
I can see that by April 2020 – Mr B was already in difficulty. And so – he didn’t qualify for a 
payment holiday under those arrangements.
Putting things right
On the balance of information, I’m persuaded that Creation should’ve considered Mr B to be 
in financial difficulty in September 2019 when he first called them. And should then have put 
in place a suitable package to help him; including a zero-interest arrangement. They should 
therefore refund all interest and fees from that date to when the debt was sold to a DCA in 
January 2021. If that results in a credit balance, then any overpayments should be returned 
to Mr B with 8% per annum simple interest added from the date of overpayment. Mr B has 
asked that the debt be written off – but I don’t agree with that, as he’s had the use of the 
money. But the remedies I’ve set out do what Mr B wanted – the refund of the interest and 
fees applied by Creation.
I agree that Creation’s responses to Mr B’s requests for support meant that he was caused 
unnecessary stress at a difficult time, and compensation of £75 is also 
appropriate.(CONTINUED)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Refund all interest and fees charged to Mr B’s account from 1 September 2019 to 
when the account was sold to a debt collection agency in January 2021.

If that results in a credit balance, then any overpayments should be returned to Mr B 
with 8% per annum simple interest added from the date of overpayment.

Given that the debt has been sold to a DCA, Creation should ensure the settlement is 
carried out as instructed here.

Pay compensation of £75 to Mr B for stress and inconvenience. When responding to 
this final decision, Mr B should advise if he would like this paid to the credit card 
account, or to his bank account (in which case he should advise its details).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman
