DRN-4329337
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a laptop he bought using a running account credit 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
What happened
Mr D bought a laptop in December 2019 using a running account credit agreement with 
Creation. The laptop cost £839.
Mr D tells us a fault occurred with the laptop in January 2023, so he took it back to the store 
he bought it from. Mr D says the store tried to get the laptop working again but couldn’t, so 
they took it in for repairs. He then received a call saying the repairs could cost around £500 
to £600. Mr D says he didn’t want to accept this and explained that the laptop had only been 
used for a few years. The supplier subsequently offered Mr D a partial refund of £407 taking 
into account that he’d been able to use the laptop for three years. But Mr D remained 
unhappy. 
As the supplier didn’t resolve things for Mr D, he contacted Creation to complain. He said to 
Creation that his laptop stopped working due to a broken SSD card which he believed was a 
manufacturing fault. Creation rejected the claim. They said the supplier told them the laptop 
was no longer in warranty, so the supplier was unable to repair the laptop free of charge, 
and that Mr D needed to fund the repair cost. 
Mr D wasn’t happy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things but 
didn’t think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint. He noted the supplier had 
made an offer of £407 to Mr D which he felt was fair taking use and depreciation into 
account. And he said that most experts estimated a laptop’s lifespan to be three to five years 
and that Mr D had no problems with the laptop until three years had passed. 
Mr D didn’t agree. He said the supplier had confirmed the laptop had a manufacturing fault 
and said other consumers had experienced the same issue with this make and model.
As Mr D’s complaint couldn’t be resolved, it’s been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr D
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr D used a regulated running account credit agreement to purchase the laptop. Our
service can consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
I’ve taken into account the relevant law which in this case is Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”). This makes Creation responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under certain conditions.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory – taking into account the description of the goods, the price or other
consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances.
Section 9(3) of the CRA says:
“The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods—
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually
supplied;
(b) appearance and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.”
I understand the laptop was new when Mr D bought it. So, it should have been free from 
even minor defects and been durable. The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to 
the contract at any time within the period of six months beginning with the day on which the
goods were delivered to the consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day
unless it’s established the goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the
application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to
the contract. 
I believe Mr D used the laptop for three years without any issues. So, I’d need to see 
sufficient evidence from Mr D to show the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was 
sold to him to say there’d been a breach of contract.
I’ve considered the evidence supplied relating to the problem with the laptop. On the one 
hand, Mr D said this was an issue with the SSD card, and after researching this, found out 
that this was widespread on the particular model he’d bought. But on the other hand, the 
repair centre said the laptop would have become faulty a lot sooner had there been a 
manufacturing defect. 
 
As the fault happened three years after purchase, I’d like to have had much
more certainty the fault was something that made the laptop of unsatisfactory quality when
Mr D bought it. There’s a variety of things that can go wrong with electrical goods. In my 
view, there’s insufficient evidence to show the problem with Mr D’s laptop was present or 
developing at the point of sale. 
While I can understand why Mr D was disappointed, given the time taken for the fault to 
manifest, I’ve not seen enough to show the laptop wasn’t durable.
Therefore, while I sympathise with Mr D, I don’t find there’s sufficient evidence of a
breach of contract for which Creation would be liable under section 75. So, I don’t have the
grounds to direct Creation to reimburse Mr D for what went wrong. I note that our 
investigator said in his view that the supplier should pay Mr D the £407 they offered him. 
However, this complaint is against Creation, not the supplier. So, I have no powers to direct 
the supplier to pay Mr D the money. If Mr D still wishes to accept the supplier’s offer, he 
should contact them directly. I’d like to apologise to Mr D for the confusion about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman
