DRN-3880876
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund in relation to a damaged leather sofa.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs B bought a leather sofa, financed by a four year interest-free loan from 
Creation. Her purchase included a five year “leather care cover” insurance policy.
In May 2022 Mrs B complained to the retailer and, simultaneously, to our service, saying that 
the leather was peeling and worn. In June she complained to Creation, and asked for a 
refund. Creation and the retailer each told her that as the problem was wear and tear, it 
wasn’t covered by the insurance policy, and the two-year warranty on the leather had 
expired. 
One of our investigators looked into this case, but she decided that there was no evidence to 
show the cause of the fault or that there had been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the retailer. She concluded that Creation had not been wrong to 
decline her claim.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman’s decision. She said that the sofa should have lasted longer, 
and also said that the insurance policy had not been honoured.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes Creation jointly and equally liable with the retailer for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the retailer arising out of Mrs B’s contract to buy the sofa. It 
is an implied statutory term of the contract that the sofa would be of satisfactory quality. That 
includes that it must be durable and free of minor defects at the time it was sold. But 
Creation is not liable for anything else.
If the damage had occurred during the two year warranty period, then that would have been 
convincing evidence that the sofa was not durable. But as the damage occurred outside of 
the period for which the sofa was guaranteed, I find it harder to conclude that no wear and 
tear ought to have occurred after three years. I also note that Mrs A’s home is occupied by a 
family of five, so it is likely that this sofa was getting plenty of use. So while I can understand 
why she has complained, on the balance of probabilities I do not feel able to conclude that 
the cause of the damage is that the sofa was of poor quality when it was sold.
Mrs B has argued that the damage implies that the leather might not be real leather but fake. 
So I have looked online at a number of photos of damaged leather. But having done that, 
I do not think it would be safe to infer that the damage I have seen in Mrs B’s photos must 
mean that it is not real leather. The damage to her sofa is not dissimilar to what I have seen 
in pictures of other leather goods.
Although the warranty had expired, the leather care cover was still in force. The insurer 
actually appears to be a third party, but I have still considered the sale of this policy, as if it 
was worthless then that could be evidence of a misrepresentation by the retailer. However, 
the policy excludes “damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product 
becoming gradually … out of condition over time” (section 4, paragraph 6). It is meant for 
accidental or sudden damage only. Having seen the photos, I don’t think I can say that the 
damage is more than just wear and tear. So the fact that the policy did not assist Mrs B on 
this occasion does not mean that it was mis-sold.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that Creation did not wrongly decline Mrs B’s claim 
under section 75.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
