DRN-4131238
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“the CCA”), and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of 
the CCA.
Mrs F has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs F throughout. 
What happened
In May 2013 Mrs F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £15,667.09. Mrs F paid a £100 deposit and was due to 
pay back the agreement with 120 monthly repayments of £129.72. I understand the system 
was installed in June 2013. 
In August 2021 Mrs F put in a claim with Creation explaining she thought the system was 
mis-sold. In summary, she said:

She became aware in May 2021 that contrary to claims made by P her system wasn’t 
self-funding over 8 years. She thought P had deliberately misled her at the point of 
sale the system would be self-funding. 

P had been found to be in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC). 

Creation was responsible for the misleading statements made by P. 

Other lenders had settled claims in relation to systems sold by P. 

She requested settlement of around £5,300 so that she pays no more than what she 
will save or make from the system. 

P is in liquidation and Creation is responsible for dealing with the claim. 
Ultimately, Mrs F said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and 
several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself 
and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs F decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in October 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said that they thought the unfair relationship 
claim and section 75 claim had been brought in time. They focussed on the unfair 
relationship claim because they said misrepresentations could lead to an unfair relationship 
and so didn’t need to cover off section 75 in detail. Our investigator considered Mrs F’s 
testimony that P told her the system would pay for itself in 8 years. But they noted 
documentation that set out the estimated first year benefit was around £700, which was 
much less than what would be required to cover the credit agreement repayments. Our 
investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. 
Mrs F responded to say other complaints like hers had been upheld. She highlighted again P 
had breached the RECC code of conduct. She said P was saying to all its customer the 
system would be self-funding, and that this was widely accepted. She said P arranged for 
clients to agree to purchase the system before arranging the finance. She said any argument 
from P the system wasn’t mis-sold was unlikely to be a successful defence. She said P told 
customers they’d receive free electricity, but many customers started to realise the benefits 
wouldn’t make the system self-funding.  
As things weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs F’s s.75 claim 
in October 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs F 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in October 2021. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs F. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in October 2021, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, and that I can consider the alleged 
misrepresentations under the unfair relationship complaint, I don’t think I need to provide a 
detailed analysis of Mrs F’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching 
a fair outcome in the circumstances.  
What happened?
Mrs F says she was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mrs F says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs F to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement.
I’m also mindful P gave Mrs F a SAP Calculations and 1st Year Returns form. This set out 
the generation tariff and export tariff for the FIT payments. It also set out the system had 
estimated:

Generation tariff earnings of £420.85.

Electrical savings based on 50% usage of £210.36.

Export tariff earnings of £61.47.

Total benefit of £692.68. 
I think the above mentioned document ought to have shown Mrs F the savings wouldn’t have 
covered the annual loan repayments cost which was around £1,550, or indeed the higher 
cost of paying off the agreement within 8 years. I would have expected Mrs F to have 
queried the shortfall if she’d been told the system would be self-funding within 8 years. We 
asked Mrs F about this and for details of why it took her as long as it did to raise the claim. 
Mrs F said she had to replace the battery and converter which she’d assumed was the 
reason for the low FIT payments. So I think she’s offered a plausible explanation for why she 
didn’t raise the claim sooner. 
Mrs F also explained her recollection of what P highlighted in 2013 wasn’t fresh in her mind. 
She said she didn’t recall the discrepancy in savings and cost of the agreement were 
discussed. She said she also didn’t recall the annual loan cost being highlighted – only the 
monthly payments and yearly savings amount. I can understand the sale was a long time 
ago and so this could have an understandable impact on her recollections. But as I said 
above, I think the loan was broadly set out clearly enough for Mrs F to have been able to 
understand what was required to be repaid. Mrs F has acknowledged she discussed the 
monthly payments and yearly benefits. So I think it would have been straight-forward enough 
for her to have seen the system wouldn’t be self-funding within 8 years or the term of the 
agreement, based on the evidence she had a the time which she’s supplied as part of her 
claim and complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs F has highlighted RECC findings and actions taken by other lenders but, 
like our investigator explained, we need to look at each case on its own merits. I note RECC 
found P had misled a sample of customers that loan payments would be covered by the 
system benefits, but I think I have to put fair weight on the documents that were supplied at 
the point of sale to Mrs F – which as far as I can see from the RECC findings weren’t always 
supplied. The information setting out the estimated benefits was included on a single page 
and the figures were presented reasonably clearly.
Overall, while I’ve carefully considered what Mrs F says she was told, given what I’ve set out 
above, I’m not persuaded there’s sufficient evidence Mrs F was misled the system would be 
self-funding. Therefore, I don’t have the grounds to say that Creation’s decision to decline 
the claim was unfair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
