DRN-1303792
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) cancelled the direct debit 
for her loan repayments, which put her in arrears. This resulted in an adverse credit entry 
which has affected her ability to get a mortgage.  Mrs C also complains that she made an 
arrears payment of £3511.40 which Creation are unable to locate.  
What happened
Mrs C took out a five year loan with Creation for £25000 on 6 March 2018. Her monthly 
repayments were to be paid by direct debit. The account shows that repayments were made 
by direct debit from April 2018 until January 2019. 
 
In January, February and March 2019 the direct debits were returned unpaid to Creation. In 
March 2019 Creation cancelled the direct debit to avoid Mrs C incurring further late payment 
charges. Creation sent arrears letters to Mrs C between 20 January and 4 June 2019, and 
made charges for the failed payments. Mrs C told us they also phoned her at work to discuss 
the arrears but she was unable to speak to them because of laryngitis and so she was 
unable to set up the direct debit again. 
Mrs C contacted Creation on 15 March 2019 by e mail asking for the loan term to be 
extended by three months or for the missed payments to be divided up over the term of the 
loan. Creation responded asking Mrs C to call them to discuss it. Mrs C then asked for a 
settlement figure for the loan which Creation provided on 29 April 2019. Mrs C e mailed 
again asking about spreading the missed payments over the term, to which Creation replied 
on 7 May 2019 that this was not possible but offered her a 12 month payment plan on the 
missed payments. Mrs C then advised that she would clear the loan in full when her house 
was sold.
On 5 June 2019 Mrs C spoke to an agent at Creation about the effect of the arrears on her 
credit status. Mrs C told us that the agent at Creation said that if she made a payment the 
credit file would be corrected. On 10 June 2019 Mrs C spoke with another agent who 
advised that the direct debit failure was Creations’ error as it had not been set up properly in 
January. Mrs C was later told that this advice was wrong, as payments had successfully 
been taken until January 2019.  
On 11 June 2019 Mrs C made an online payment of £3511.40 to Creation using her 
brother’s credit card to clear the arrears. She then asked for the credit file to be corrected 
and the “in arrears” status to be removed. She told Creation that this negative credit marker 
was causing her problems in getting a mortgage and a car loan. 
There was further correspondence with Creation about the removal of the credit marker as 
Mrs C was unhappy that the amendment to her credit file was not immediate and that 
despite clearing arrears, her credit file was still showing the loan as in arrears in late June 
2019. Mrs C says that this caused her to have to obtain an adverse credit mortgage, which 
cost her an extra £1400. 
On 16 July 2019 the £3511.40 which had been paid to Creation from Mrs C’s brother’s credit 
card was charged back to his card.  
Mrs C has provided screenshots of her brother’s online banking app, and also the back page 
of his credit card statement for July 2019, which shows that the £3511.40 was charged back 
on 16 July, but then recharged back to Creation on 23 July. Mrs C has told us that Creation 
are responsible for that recharge and she did not make the payment herself. 
Mrs C told us she telephoned Creation on 3 August 2019 and was told the payment would 
be credited to her account but in a further call on 9 August 2019 she was told that there was 
no trace of the money. 
Mrs C says that Creation have “stolen” this £3511.40 as it has been repaid to them on 23 
July 2019 and they are saying it cannot be found. 
In August 2019, Mrs C’s credit report was still showing an outstanding balance on the loan of 
£9039 with a default balance at £30285 up to June 2019. 
Mrs C cleared her loan on 19 September 2019 in full and the account was closed. 
Mrs C’s original complaint was about Creation’s failure to update her credit file promptly, the 
cancellation of her direct debit, and customer service failings. A final response was sent on 
this issued on 20 June 2019. Creation acknowledged customer service failings in the way 
they had dealt with Mrs C’s complaint, and paid £50 into her account as compensation for 
the upset caused. Mrs C was not happy with this response and referred this complaint to us. 
While we were investigating this issue, Mrs C raised a further complaint with Creation on 19 
August 2019 about the missing payment of £3511.40, and the investigator tried to assist in 
locating the £3511.40, asking for details that would help Creation locate the payment.    
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs C’s complaint and has decided that Creation’s  
offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered the information provided to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Mrs C has raised two main complaints. Firstly, that Creation have cancelled the direct debit 
for her loan repayments and then not acted fairly and reasonably in applying an adverse 
credit marker to her account, and secondly that Creation have not credited her with the 
£3511.40 that she paid using her brother’s credit card.   
I can see from the information supplied by Creation that the reason that Mrs C’s direct debt 
was cancelled was because the direct debit payments in January, February and March 2019 
were returned by her bank as “Refer to Payer”. This is possibly due to there being 
insufficient funds in Mrs C’s account. In order to prevent further charges accruing, Creation 
cancelled the direct debit in March. 
I can also see that Creation made attempts to contact Mrs C by telephone and by letter to 
advise that her direct debit had failed each month. Mrs C herself accepts that she received 
calls from Creation, but that she was unable to speak to them due to laryngitis. 
Mrs C has complained that Creation had breached GDPR by calling her at work and leaving 
messages. I can see that Creation did try to make contact with her at work when her account 
went into arrears because of the failed direct debit. However, the notes do not say what 
information was divulged. If Mrs C believes that there has been a breach of GDPR, this 
would be an issue for the Information Commissioner’s Office to investigate. 
I think that Mrs C was therefore aware that her payments were not being made, and that she 
was getting into arrears. It is Mrs C’s responsibility under the terms of her credit agreement 
to ensure that payments are being made. She did not make these payments, and when 
there was contact between her and Creation in March and April 2019 about the arrears, Mrs 
C asked to extend the loan term or add the arrears to the existing payments rather than 
make the missed payments. This indicates that she was unable to pay the arrears in full 
immediately.  Mrs C also doesn’t seem to have made any attempt to restart the direct debit. 
I can see from the statements provided by Creation that the direct debit payments were 
taken correctly from April 2018 to December 2018. There is therefore no evidence that 
Creation have incorrectly set up the direct debit, and so I am unable to find that the failure of 
the direct debit in January, February and March 2019 was Creation’s fault.   
In view of the above, I am satisfied that Creation have done nothing wrong in cancelling the 
direct debit when it was unpaid in January, February and March 2019, and that they have 
made efforts to contact Mrs C to recommence the payments. I can also see that there were 
several charges for the failed direct debits and I don’t think Creation have done anything 
wrong in applying these charges for the failed payments. Mrs C had an obligation to make 
the payments, her direct debit was returned, and she did not try to remedy this during the 
period that charges were being made.  
It's unfortunate Mrs C was wrongly told in June 2019 that that the direct debit failure was 
Creation’s fault, this does not affect the fact that no payments had been made for six months 
on the loan, and in these circumstances Creation have acted appropriately. 
Mrs C then did make the arrears payment of £3511.40 in full on 11 June 2019, using her 
brother’s credit card. She then complained to Creation on 15 June 2019 that her credit status 
was still showing as in arrears and that she had to obtain an adverse credit mortgage.   Mrs 
C had expected the credit status to immediately update. 
Creation have explained to us that they send the updates to the Credit Reference Agency 
about credit status at the end of each month. It can then take 28 days for the information to 
be processed by the Credit Reference Agency and any amendments to the credit file to be 
made. Creation have acted in accordance with their procedures on reporting. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mrs C would have been frustrated that the impact of making the payment on 
her credit status was not immediate, Creation have not acted unfairly in following their 
normal process.    
The second complaint made by Mrs C relates to the £3511.40 payment which she believes 
has gone missing. When Creation looked into the complaint, they noted that the £3511.40 
which had been paid had been charged back to the card it was paid from on 13 July 2019. 
This would have meant that the arrears were still outstanding. They have no record of it 
being repaid back again.  
Mrs C has provided the back page of a statement from her brother’s credit card which shows 
“Recharge – www.creation” on 23 July 2019 for the amount of £3511.40. This would indicate 
that that the chargeback was repaid to Creation on that date. We have not seen the front 
page of the card statement which would show the account details it was paid from. 
 
We have asked Creation to try and locate this payment using the information provided to us 
by Mrs C. Creation have not been able to locate it. The payment has not been credited to 
Mrs C’s account, and Creation have advised that they have checked their suspense 
accounts to see if a payment for that amount has been received on that date by them and 
held. They have not been able to identify any matching payment. 
We have asked Mrs C for further information to assist us in helping Creation find a payment 
matching the one made. The information requested includes full details for her brother’s 
credit card account and details from the credit card provider as to which account they have 
sent the funds to. We have also asked for an up to date credit report and details of her 
additional losses as a result of what has happened. Mrs C has refused to provide us with this 
information. 
We have also asked Mrs C’s brother directly for the information, including the account 
details, confirmation from the card provider of where they sent the payment, confirmation of 
whether the funds have again been returned to his card since 23 July 2019, further copies of 
statements, and details of why the amount was initially recharged. However, he has not 
responded to our request for information.  
Therefore, I am unable to fairly say that the £3511.40 has been received and retained by 
Creation. Mrs C and her brother have both been asked for and have not provided sufficient 
information for us to identify a payment. 
Mrs C also raised an issue that Creation did not reply to her “notice of correction”. The 
purpose of a notice of correction is for a consumer to make prospective lenders aware of the 
circumstances behind information on the credit file. It is not a dispute process, and so 
Creation were not required to respond to this. 
I note that Creation have paid £50 to Mrs C in respect of the customer service failings from 
her first complaint. I think the payment is fair for the service failings Mrs C experienced, she 
was given wrong information on more than one call. Although rectified and I can that this 
would have caused upset and disappointment. I do not intend to disturb this payment.
My final decision
Creation has already paid £50 into Mrs C’s loan account. 
I will not therefore be asking Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman
