DRN-4345453
The complaint
Mr T complains that he wasn’t provided with any information when he entered into a Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr T purchased a washer-dryer from a merchant and entered into a credit 
agreement with Creation. Mr T chose the BNPL option, which meant that if he paid for the 
goods in full on or before 10 March 2022 he wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Mr T opted in 
to receive online statements through his new Creation online account. 
In April 2022 Mr T noticed an unexpected direct debit from his bank account. As he wasn’t 
expecting this he called his bank and requested a refund. He called and emailed the 
merchant to clarify the situation with Creation and source his account number so that he 
could log on to the online account. He paid the full balance of the washer-dryer on 3 May. As 
he hadn’t paid the balance by 10 March Creation charged him interest. He raised a 
complaint with Creation. He said he hadn’t received any information in relation to his credit 
agreement. 
In its final response Creation said two statements were made available to Mr T by his ‘Online 
Account Manager’ as paperless statement delivery was selected at the point of sale, as a 
reminder of the Special Offer Date. It said, however, as it did not receive payment by or 
before the required date, interest became applicable, and a direct debit was initiated to 
collect monthly repayments from his bank account. Creation went on to say Mr T signed an 
agreement to confirm he had read, understood, and accepted the Terms and Conditions. 
The agreement outlined his Special Offer Date, and how the interest would be applied. 
Mr T wasn’t satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said he hadn’t been 
treated fairly by Creation as it hadn’t sent him any type of correspondence regarding his 
account before the payment was taken 10 months after purchase. He said he didn’t even 
know the credit company used by the merchant. Mr T said when he finally accessed the 
online account he was able to read the agreement which said he would receive a monthly 
notification by email when his statement was ready. He said he didn’t receive any emails. 
And the only access given to him by Creation to the online account was when he signed the 
agreement. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr T had been provided with a link to allow him to register 
and access his account. He said Mr T could’ve contacted Creation to access the account 
and it was his responsibility to make sure he repaid the borrowed amount within the BNPL 
period. 
Mr T did not agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said at no point did 
Creation make clear that the online account was the only means for him to get information. 
He said he had the funds to pay the full balance prior to the BNPL interest free deadline but 
Creation had allowed the 9-month offer period to pass with no contact whatsoever.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2023. I said: 
“I can see from the credit agreement Mr T signed that he opted in to receive online 
statements. I can also see the details of the BNPL period were clearly outlined in the 
agreement. But I also note that it says: 
“You’ll receive a monthly notification via email when your statement is ready. 
This will contain a link to log on to your account online to view your 
statement.” 
My role is to come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the 
evidence available to me, taking account of the relevant laws, rules and industry 
practice. It was Mr T’s responsibility to pay for the balance prior to the deadline to 
avoid interest accruing. But it was Creation’s responsibility to ensure Mr T had 
reasonable access to his account. And I can’t see that it did. In the agreement it said 
it would email Mr T to inform him when statements were ready. It said in its final 
response that two statements were available online. 
I asked Creation to provide me with a copy of any emails sent to Mr T between 20 
June 2021 and 20 March 2022 and to confirm the email address it holds for him. I 
also asked specifically if Mr T was sent any statement emails before 20 March 2022. 
Creation provided evidence of statements available to Mr T through his online 
account and confirmed the correct email address for him. In answer to my request for 
copies of emails it may have sent before March 2022 it provided copies of 
statements. But it hasn’t provided evidence of any actual emails it sent to Mr T to 
inform him that statements were available and including the link to his online account. 
Mr T has provided evidence that he had more than sufficient funds in his bank 
account to pay the outstanding balance prior to the interest free deadline and he paid 
the balance as soon as he realised what the direct debit was taken for. So I’m 
satisfied his intention had always been to pay the balance before the deadline. 
I’m not persuaded Creation sent any emails to Mr T despite saying that it would do so 
on the agreement. I think it’s likely Mr T would’ve paid in full before the end of the 
BNPL interest free period had he received emails and the link to the account to 
access his statements.”
Subject to any further information I might receive from either party I was minded to instruct 
Creation to remove all interest from Mr T’s account relating to the purchase which is the 
subject of this complaint.
Mr T responded to my provisional decision to inform us that he’d made the interest payment 
to prevent further charges. Creation said Mr T opted out of notifications except for 
statements. It said it could not be held responsible for how Mr T manages his online account.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my provisional decision stills stands. In its email in response to my 
provisional decision Creation said:
“It seems the customer did opt out to their notifications apart from their statements. 
Due to this, the customer did not receive the monthly notification when the statement 
is ready to view.
Creation cannot be held responsible in how the customer manage their online 
account manager.”
Creation included a screenshot from its system indicating Mr T’s notification settings from 
when he set up his account. For ‘account settled alert’, ‘account update’ and ‘end pay later 
period’ he opted out of email and SMS notifications. So I can understand why Mr T didn’t 
receive an email when his BNPL deal was due to end. But Creation’s comments above are 
contradictory regarding statements. Mr T opted in to receive email notifications for 
statements so he should have received emails alerting him to the statement when it was 
available online. And as I mentioned above Creation said access to the online account would 
be in those emails. Creation still hasn’t provided copies of any emails it sent to Mr T so I’m 
still not persuaded it sent any and I remain of the opinion that Mr T would have settled in full 
before the end of the BNPL period.   
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must remove all interest from Mr T's 
account relating to the purchase which is a subject of this complaint. 
Mr T said he paid £490.17 in interest on 7 October 2022 so Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must refund this interest payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
put things right as I've set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman
