DRN-3930904
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
What happened
In July 2014, Ms G entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a supplier. 
She paid for the system in part using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation, which was 
repayable over ten years. 
The CMC wrote to Creation September 2021, to make a claim under s.75 on behalf of Ms G. 
The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services 
using credit. The creditor (Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations 
being met. 
Ms G’s claim explained that the system was sold to her as being self-funding – that is that it 
would pay for itself through the benefits it would provide.
Creation responded to say that the claim had been made outside of the time limits that 
apply. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms G raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service to look into. One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that Creation 
had not acted unfairly by rejecting Ms G’s claim. 
In summary, our adjudicator said that Ms G’s claim against the supplier of the system was 
made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. As Creation (as the credit 
provider) is liable to the same extent as the supplier, our adjudicator agreed it had acted 
reasonably when saying the ‘like claim’ against it was made too late. 
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s assessment, but Ms G did not. The CMC made a 
number of points, but essentially said that we should consider s.14 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, rather than s.75. And that due to this Ms G had three years from when she became 
aware she had cause to make a claim. The CMC says that Ms G didn’t know she could claim 
until she contacted the CMC, and the claim was made shortly after this. So the claim was not 
made out of time.
Our adjudicator wasn’t persuaded to change their mind. They said that Ms G ought to have 
been aware she had a cause to make a claim a year or two following the installation, so the 
claim was still made outside of the time limits that applied. 
Unhappy with this, Ms G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations 
Ms G’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. The Limitation Act is also relevant because 
Creation relied on this when declining the claim. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can 
be held responsible for a purchase Ms G made using her credit card. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Ms G fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Creation gave for declining Ms G’s claim was that it was made outside of the relevant 
time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Ms G’s rights to claim against Creation are on the same 
basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Ms G says the benefits of the system was the inducement that made her make 
the purchase. But her claim is largely that those benefits were negligently misrepresented 
and so she entered a contract which wasn’t the value for money she expected. Ms G says 
that were it not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then she wouldn’t have 
entered the contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Ms G’s financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the system in July 2014 
using a loan, and she began to make repayments. 
Ms G raised her claim with Creation in September 2021, which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Ms G’s claim against Creation is under the 
Consumer Credit Act, so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an 
act of parliament). But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other 
provisions in the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a 
supplier’s misrepresentation or breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the 
shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for breach of contract – and 
gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Ms G’s claim as I’ve already explained she raised her 
complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Ms G knew, or ought to 
have known, that she may have a claim for misrepresentation or negligence against the 
supplier. 
Ms G’s complaint is that the system was not self-funding. I think she was aware at the time 
of sale how much she would be paying each month (and year) to repay the loan. So, once 
she had evidence of the benefits the system was providing, she would be in a position to 
know if the system was self-funding or not. I think she ought to have known this about one 
year after installation, since by that point she would have one year’s worth of feed-in tariff 
(“FIT”) statements and electricity bills. This would allow her to compare the benefits (what 
she was receiving in FIT payments and how much less she was paying for electricity 
compared to before installation) with the loan repayments. 
Given when I think Ms G ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation or 
negligence, s.14A does not extend the time limits referred to above. So, I consider it 
reasonable for Creation to have concluded the claim was made out of time, and that Ms G 
did know, or ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation more than three 
years before she made her claim. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Ms G’s claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether or 
not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under the Limitation 
Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, I’m 
satisfied Creation has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Ms G was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms G. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold Ms G’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
