DRN-4893143
The complaint
Mr T has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr T has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr T throughout.
What happened
On 12 September 2014, Mr T signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “M” using a fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr T complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, 
and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the 
sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Mr T raised his complaint to Creation on 12 May 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 19 September 2022. Creation considered Mr T had brought his claim more 
than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr T asked us to review his complaint. Mr T 
brought his complaint to this service on 9 June 2022. 
An investigator considered Mr T’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr T and 
Creation. 
On 6 March 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr T keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Mr T had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr T accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 27 March 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from 
it. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 7 June 2024, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr T’s complaint. I set out an extract below:
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr T’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr T’s s.75 claim 
on 11 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mr T brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 
November 2021. So, his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr T. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 18 November 2021, 
so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
T. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr T has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr T has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr T to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr T on 12 September 2014 and by Creation on 15 
September 2014, sets out Mr T’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being 
purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr T’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr T to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr T would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. M were found to be in breach of the RECC in 
September 2014. And one of the breaches was found to be that consumers may have 
been misled about the costs of the loan being met fully by income generated from the 
solar panels. So, this seems to support what Mr T told us; that the solar panels cost would 
be fully met from the income and savings they could generate. 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC were looking at, the 
findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr T’s 
complaint around the time that he was sold his system. So, on balance it seems more 
likely than not that M did tell Mr T the scheme would be self-funding.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr T said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr T left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £134, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr T’s account of what he was told by M to be credible 
and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would 
have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said 
he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr T’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,618 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr T’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr T’s testimony is that it didn’t. I note that Mr T’s testimony is supported by the FIT 
statements he has provided.
So, the statements made by M’s representative were not true. I think the salesman from M 
must reasonably have been aware that Mr T’s system would not have produced benefits 
at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr T’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mr T.
Considering Mr T’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr T a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr T’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr T was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr T went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr T’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr T in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr T and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr T’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.  
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr T and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr T a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr T’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr T received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr T received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr T may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
T has sold the house and does not have access to much documentation from before this. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mr T made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mr T’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr T should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mr T. 

Give Mr T the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr T
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and 
informal.”
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 5 July 2024. Mr T has accepted my provisional findings. Creation 
has not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or asked for an 
extension to do so. 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision. 
It was not clear what the term of the loan was from the paperwork I saw in the case file. Mr 
T thought the term of the loan might be 136 months. Whilst that is possible, the term is 
more likely to be 120 months as the figures in the loan agreement work for that term. I 
have issued my provisional findings based on the term being 120 months. At the time of 
writing neither party has disagreed with the term used in my provisional findings. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr T’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add. 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr T’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above. 
Putting things right
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr T’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation 
as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
