DRN-4438606
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way in which Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss S purchased a new sofa from a retailer and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
Miss S experienced a fault with the sofa in early 2022. She contacted the warranty company 
who arranged an inspection of the sofa. The inspection report found that the mechanism 
inside the sofa had dropped and twisted causing damage to the frame. The report stated that 
a new mechanism was required.
Miss S was happy to accept a repair. However, the retailer had gone into administration and 
the part required to repair the sofa wasn’t available. In July 2022 the warranty company 
offered to refund the cost of the warranty because the repair couldn’t be completed.
Miss S wasn’t able to use the sofa and disposed of it. In December 2022 she raised a 
section 75 claim with Creation.
Creation rejected the section 75 claim. It said that the claim had been accepted under the 
warranty and that there wasn’t a manufacturing fault.
Miss S complained to this service. She wanted to end the agreement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality and 
that there had been a breach of contract under section 75. The investigator said that 
Creation should end the agreement, refund the deposit, refund payments made since May 
2022 and pay compensation of £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Creation didn’t agree. It questioned why Miss S had taken so long to raise a section 75 claim 
and said she shouldn’t have disposed of the sofa because this had prevented an inspection 
being carried out.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was satisfied that there had been a breach of 
contract for the purposes of section 75. I considered the points made in response by 
Creation but said there was no time limit for bringing a section 75 claim and I was satisfied 
that Miss S had raised the claim as soon as she became aware of her consumer rights. In 
relation to Creations point about inspection of the sofa, I said that there had already been an 
independent inspection which had concluded that there was a fault and that the mechanism 
needed to be replaced. I said that once it had become clear that the parts weren’t available 
to carry out the repair, I didn’t think it was unreasonable for Miss S to dispose of the sofa.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to raise.
Miss S replied and said she would like me to consider a distress and inconvenient payment. 
She said that Creation had rejected her complaint without considering all of the information 
and left her in a position where she had to purchase another sofa on finance.
Creation didn’t respond to my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve thought about the points Miss S has made and I’ve reviewed the information about how 
Creation handled her claim. Its fair to say that Creation didn’t give the independent 
inspection report the weight that it should have done when considering whether there was a 
fault with the sofa and whether there was a breach of contract for the purpose of section 75. 
This has caused delay in Miss S achieving a resolution to her claim. So I’m persuaded that 
its reasonable to ask Creation to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Miss S as a result of the way it handled her claim.
In all other respects I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund the deposit of £200
Refund all payments made under the agreement since May 2022
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation of £75 for distress and inconvenience
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
