DRN-3551062
The complaint
Mr A complains about some issues with a kitchen that he paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited. 
What happened
Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in September 2020 to pay for a “luxury bespoke fitted kitchen”. The 
cash price of the kitchen was £17,000 and Mr A agreed to make 120 monthly payments of 
£302.92 to Creation Consumer Finance. 
There were some issues with the kitchen, including with some of the worktops, so Mr A 
contacted the supplier. It inspected the kitchen and arranged for the worktops to be 
inspected by the manufacturer. It said that it would complete any outstanding remedial work 
that was necessary and it offered £500 to Mr A as a goodwill gesture. Mr A didn’t accept its 
offer and complained to Creation Consumer Finance.
It said that the supplier’s offer to complete any outstanding works and to pay £500 to Mr A as 
a goodwill gesture was fair. Mr A wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. The supplier then rescinded its offer of a goodwill gesture but said that it would 
complete the remedial works identified in its quality control report.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that that the 
manufacturer had confirmed that the kitchen was fit for purpose and satisfactory. He said 
that he was unable to agree that there had been a breach of contract by the supplier and he 
felt that Creation Consumer Finance’s final response was fair and that it didn’t need to do 
anything further to resolve Mr A’s complaint.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
kitchen installation was wrong, he’s been let down and the kitchen isn’t fit for purpose.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mr A paid for the kitchen using credit, in the form of a loan, from Creation Consumer 
Finance;

in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;

to be able to uphold Mr A’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Creation Consumer Finance’s response to his claim under section 75 wasn’t 
fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr A’s claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mr A clearly feels that there are issues with the kitchen that was installed that cause 
it not to have been of satisfactory quality – particularly with the worktops that have 
more joins than he considers they should;

the supplier has inspected the kitchen several times and it arranged for the worktops 
to be inspected by the worktop manufacturer;

the worktop manufacturer said that it “found the worktops to be fit for purpose” and 
advised Mr A on cleaning methods and materials – it said that the marks on the 
worktops were all within tolerance and part of the pigments used to create the 
finishes of the stone – and it said that “nobody would ever plan a complete L shaped 
piece as it would be vulnerable in transportation and fitting”;

I’ve seen no evidence to show that the supplier agreed that the worktops would be 
fitted with fewer joins or that it has supplied worktops that aren’t of satisfactory 
quality;

I can understand Mr A’s disappointment about the joins in the worktops being more 
visible than he expected and about the pigment marks in the stone – but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that there’s been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in relation to the worktops;

the supplier inspected the kitchen and produced a quality control report – it has also 
provided completion pictures of the fitted kitchen and says that it feels that it’s 
professionally fitted and looks lovely – it also says that it will attend to the items in the 
quality control report at no charge even though it’s now outside the twelve month 
workmanship warranty;

when Mr A contacted the supplier about his issues with the kitchen, it said that it 
would complete any outstanding remedial work that was necessary and it also 
offered £500 to Mr A as a goodwill gesture – Mr A didn’t accept that offer but I 
consider that it was a fair and reasonable offer for the supplier to make at that time – 
and the supplier has now withdrawn the offer to make a goodwill payment to Mr A;

I consider that Creation Consumer Finance’s response to Mr A’s section 75 claim 
was fair and reasonable in these circumstances and I’m not persuaded that there’s 
enough evidence to show that it has acted incorrectly; and

I sympathise with Mr A for the issues that he has with the kitchen but I find that it 
wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
any compensation to Mr A or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr A’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
