 
 
DRN-4990750 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Ms S complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), in relation to a solar 
panel system (“the system”) which she paid for using a loan from Creation. 
 
What happened 
In June 2015, Ms S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “M”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
In June 2020, Ms S complained to Creation. She said that she was never shown how to use 
the solar panels before M ceased trading and didn’t even know if they were working.  
 
Creation treated the matter as a claim under Section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
(“CCA”). Creation arranged for the system to be inspected. This confirmed the system was 
working, so Creation rejected the claim and complaint in its final response dated 29 
November 2021. 
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms S referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on 31 January 2022. She expanded on her concerns, which included 
the following: 
 
• 
At the point of sale, she was pressured into making a quick decision as she was told 
the offer was only valid that day.  
• 
The installation was completed when she was not at home. Her son, who was there, 
was not given any information about how the system worked.  
• 
Ms S understood there would be a further visit to explain how the system worked. 
She tried to call M to arrange this, leaving messages, but had no response before M 
ceased trading and went into liquidation.  
• 
The system was never registered for the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) scheme, so she has 
never received any income from this.  
• 
She has not noticed any change in her electricity bills.  
• 
She has been paying for the system with no idea how to use it and it seemingly 
provides no benefit to her.  
 
Ms S also told us that, in 2020, she came across an article which said she could take up the 
matter with the finance provider and this prompted her to contact Creation. Creation had 
focussed on her saying she didn’t know if the system was working but ignored the rest of her 
complaint. She tried to apply for the FIT scheme after failing to get in touch with M but did 
not understand the forms and was not able to complete the application process.  
 
Our Investigator considered Ms S’s complaint. We asked Creation to respond to Ms S’s 
complaint about the benefits of the system not matching what she’d been told at the point of 
sale. Creation treated this as a new claim under s.75 and said that the claim had been made 
too late bearing in mind the provisions of the Limitation Act.  
 
Our investigator ultimately thought that:  
 
 
 
• 
The s.75 claim as a whole was made in time bearing in mind the Limitation Act and 
that Ms S contacted Creation about this in June 2020, being less than six years after 
the sale took place.  
• 
Bearing in mind Section 140A (“s.140A”) of the CCA, we could consider whether the 
relationship between Creation and Ms S was unfair – and given Ms S’s loan was still 
being repaid when she contacted us, a complaint about that was in time under the 
time limits we must apply.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms S and 
Creation.  
 
Our Investigator recommended that Creation adjust the loan to ensure that Ms S pays no 
more for the system than the benefits it will provide her over the original ten-year loan term. 
 
Creation didn’t respond to our Investigator but has separately questioned our jurisdiction on 
similar complaints and said that if we did uphold them we should award redress in 
accordance with what the Courts awarded in the legal case of Hodgson v Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (“Hodgson”). 
 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 July 2024, explaining why the complaint was within our 
jurisdiction and that I was planning to uphold it. Ms S confirmed she had nothing further to 
add. Creation didn’t respond. I then issued my jurisdiction decision on 13 August 2024, 
confirming we have jurisdiction to consider the merits of this complaint. Neither Ms S nor 
Creation provided anything further for me to consider. So, this final decision is in line with my 
provisional decision of 24 July 2024. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. I explain my reasons below.  
 
Can I take into account what Ms S was told at the time of sale? 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A, I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms S.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
 
 
What Ms S was told and my reasons for upholding this complaint 
 
Ms S was expecting to receive FIT income and savings on her electricity bills as a result of 
installing the system. The system is working, as confirmed when Creation had it inspected. 
However, it appears that the system has not generated the level of electricity shown in the 
contract at the time of sale. This was 2,106 kWh per year.  
 
On 5 December 2022, Ms S provided a reading from the system’s generation meter, which 
showed that up until that point it had generated 13,050 kWh of electricity. This is an average 
of less than 1,895 kWh, or 89% of the amount shown on the contract.  
 
A solar power system is expected to generate at least 90% of the amount of electricity 
calculated at the time of sale. The system is apparently working properly – having been 
inspected in November 2021. So, I think this means that there was a breach of contract by 
the supplier, in that the system is not capable of generating the promised amount of 
electricity.  
 
Further to this, the contract showed what benefits were expected to flow from this. This was: 
 
• 
Year one benefit of £491.65 (including FIT income and electricity bill savings). 
• 
20-year FIT benefit of £7,658.94. 
• 
25-year energy savings worth £12,275.60 
• 
Total lifetime solar panel benefits of £19,3453. 
• 
Total solution benefits of £682.34 in the first year and £39,731.87 over 25 years.  
 
While Ms S will have saved some money on her electricity bills (since the system has been 
working and this will contribute to any electricity used in the home during daylight hours, 
meaning she will not have had to purchase as much electricity from her supplier), this has 
not been enough for her to notice a difference. And she has received no FIT income at all 
because the supplier failed to assist her in applying for the FIT scheme.  
 
Ms S expected the system to pay for itself. While the contract does not indicate that the 
benefits would immediately cover the monthly loan repayments of £102.19, the total benefits 
shown on the contract far exceed the total payable for the system according to the loan 
agreement – which was £12,262.80. So, I think it would’ve been reasonable for Ms S to 
expect, based on what she’d been told by M, that the system would pay for itself within the 
loan term – that is, that the income and savings would at least match what she paid in that 
time. It is clear that hasn’t happened.  
 
Considering Ms S’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown at 
the time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t disputed this, I think it likely M gave Ms S a 
false and misleading impression of the generating capacity and self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system.  
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms S was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to pay for itself 
within the loan term. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented 
the basis upon which Ms S went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances 
were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms S’s 
point of view. 
 
 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Ms S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the generating capacity and self-funding nature of 
the solar panel system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the 
relationship between Ms S and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would not otherwise have taken out. 
 
Putting things right 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Ms S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of M’s assurances. That is, that Ms S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the generating capacity and self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that, I am satisfied 
the assurances were such that fair compensation should be based on Ms S’s expectation 
of what she would receive. I consider Ms S has lost out and has suffered unfairness in her 
relationship with Creation, to the extent that her loan repayments to Creation exceed the 
benefits from the system. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair 
compensation for Ms S. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings Ms S received and will receive from the system over the ten-
year term of the loan, so Ms S pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Ms S received by way of savings. Ms S will need to provide Creation 
with an up-to-date generation meter reading so Creation can work this out using reasonable 
assumptions about self-consumption rate and electricity prices. If Ms S can provide 
electricity bills then Creation can use her actual electricity unit rates for the periods those 
bills cover.  
 
Given Ms S does not understand her system, which M failed to explain to her, Creation 
should arrange for a suitable expert to attend her property and explain how the system 
works and answer any questions she might have, so she is able to identify if it stops working 
in future and understands how to make the best of the electricity it generates.  
 
 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to consider the overall fairness of its relationship 
with Ms S when responding, and not dealing with all of her concerns, caused her some 
degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this Creation should also pay Ms S additional 
compensation as set out below. 
 
Smart Export Guarantee 
 
While Ms S has not received any FIT income, this scheme was replaced by the Smart Export 
Guarantee (“SEG”). Her system may need some changes to make it eligible for SEG (such 
as a new generation/export meter being fitted), but it may be possible for Ms S to make 
those changes and receive some income in future.  
 
Further information on SEG is available on the Ofgem website: 
 
www.ofgem.gov.uk/environmental-programmes/smart-export-guarantee-seg  
 
MCS accredited installers, who may be able to advise and provide quotes for making the 
system eligible for SEG can be found on: 
 
mcscertified.com/find-an-installer  
 
Since it is uncertain as to whether Ms S can or will receive SEG payments in future, and 
even if she does this may not be possible until after the end of the original loan term, 
Creation should not assume any SEG payments will be received by Ms S when calculating 
redress.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 
 
• 
Arrange for a suitable expert to attend Ms S’s property and explain how the system 
works and answer any questions she might have, so she is able to identify if it stops 
working in future and understands how to make the best of the electricity it 
generates.  
 
• 
Calculate the total payments (including any advance payment or fees) Ms S has 
made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 
 
• 
Use Ms S’s meter reading and electricity bills (where available) to work out the 
benefits she received up until the date of settlement* – B 
 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Ms S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference between what she actually paid (A), and what 
she should have paid, adding 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 
 
• 
Pay C to Ms S  
 
• 
Use reasonable assumptions to work out the benefits Ms S will receive for the period 
between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* – D 
 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan  
 
 
 
• 
Pay Ms S £100 additional compensation 
 
* Where Ms S has not been able to provide all of her electricity bills, Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should complete the calculation using reasonable assumptions.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms S how much it’s deducted. It should 
also give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2024. 
  
  
 
Phillip Lai-Fang 
Ombudsman 
 
