 
 
DRN-4133807 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs O has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“the CCA”), and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of 
the CCA. 
Mrs O has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs O throughout.  
What happened 
In December 2013 Mrs O entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£5,500 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £8,532.04. Mrs O was due to pay back the agreement 
with 120 monthly repayments of £71.10. I understand the system was installed in January 
2014.  
In April 2021 Mrs O put in a claim with Creation explaining she thought the system was mis-
sold. In summary, she said P pressured her to take out the agreement to buy the system. 
Mrs O said P told her the system would be self-funding; she would make a profit and benefit 
from cheaper electricity. She said P mispresented the system and that several other actions 
at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
 
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs O decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in December 2021 (after initially contacting us in July 2021).  
One of our investigators looked into things and ultimately said that they thought the unfair 
relationship claim and section 75 claim had been brought in time. They said they thought it 
likely P had misled Mrs O by telling her the system would be self-funding within 10 years. 
They thought Creation could be held responsible for the misleading actions of P, and that it 
should put Mrs O in the position she’d have been in had the system been self-funding within 
the loan term. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
looking into the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation, and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
 
The s.75 complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs O’s s.75 claim 
in November 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mrs O brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in December 2021. So, 
her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs O. Here I understand the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in December 2021, so the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. Although I 
understand the agreement has now been paid off.  
Merits 
The s.75 complaint  
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in December 2013. Mrs O brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
in April 2021. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with it. Given 
this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs O.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
 
 
Mrs O says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs O says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
Mrs O has supplied a copy of P’s notes that say she spoke to it on 3 December 2013 
because she’d shown interest. The notes say shown interest for free panels.  
Mrs O signed the fixed sum loan agreement on 6 December 2013. The fixed sum loan 
agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; the total amount 
payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out 
clearly enough for Mrs O to be able to understand what was required to be repaid towards 
the agreement. But the loan agreement doesn’t set out the savings Mrs O would likely make 
from having the system installed.  
I can see an order form was signed for a £5,500 system on 6 December 2013. This was for 
8 panels. Although I’ve also seen that at one point 12 panels were discussed but P could 
only fit 8 panels on the roof. I think P’s notes indicate it gave Mrs O 8 upgraded panels 
instead of 12 standard ones.  
I can see the MCS Installation Certificate sets out the commissioning date as 23 January 
2014. The evidence indicates this was the installation date. The MCS certificate sets out the 
estimated generation for the system in kWh was 1,643.  
But I’ve also seen other documents that set out expectations of the system. I can there’s a 
customer satisfaction note from Creation, signed by Mrs O on 23 January 2014, that sets 
out: 
Expected generation tariff income 
£478.24 
Expected export tariff income  
£74.02 
Savings from electricity used  
£290.33 
Estimated first year annual savings £842.58 
Mrs O also supplied a copy of another document from P that set out a review of the benefits: 
Summary of 1st year figures  
£843 
Lifetime electricity bills savings 
£13,834 
Total tariff rate income  
 
£17,448 
The form also sets out the payback time was 9 years and that the lifetime benefit was 
£31,281.53. 
Curiously, the forms that were completed were for systems with a yield of around 3,190kWh 
but Mrs O’s system has a yield much lower – around 1,500 to 1600kWh. It’s not clear why P 
didn’t recalculate the figures. Mrs O thinks it was because the number of panels were 
reduced around the installation time. This seems like a viable explanation.  
Mrs O has also supplied copies of other documents including the order form, marketing 
materials, certificates and maintenance instructions, but I can’t see those forms adequately 
informed her the system wouldn’t be self-funding. Overall, the documentation I’ve seen 
seems to indicate Mrs O was told otherwise.  
I’ve also thought about Mrs O’s testimony. She said she wasn’t interested in solar panels 
before being approached by P. But she said her late husband was interested at the time 
because P sold the system as giving free electricity. She said the motivation in buying the 
system was because P said the system would be self-funding and that she’s get free 
 
 
electricity most of the time. She said her and her husband were retired at the time and had 
an income of around £20,000.  
It would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mrs O would have agreed to 
pay for the system if her monthly outgoings would increase. It’s a long-term financial 
commitment. On balance, I find her account to be plausible and convincing.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £850 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest she’s achieved anywhere near this 
benefit. I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of 
the system weren’t true.  
I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs O’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mrs O’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to her. 
 
Considering Mrs O’s account about what she was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely P gave Mrs O a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on I find Mrs O’s account of what she was told by P credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have 
seen this purchase appealing had P not given the reassurances she said she received.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs O expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mrs O went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were seriously 
misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs O’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs O in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs O and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs O and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs O a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs O’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs O received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs O received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. 
Mrs O will need to supply, where available, her last FIT benefits received, electricity bills and 
meter readings to Creation. Although I understand Mrs O has now moved, so won’t have 
current bills and readings.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement is now paid off, I think there’s only one viable 
option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the s.140A claim has also caused Mrs O some 
further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator 
is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs O’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs O has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs O’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs O should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs O 
• 
Pay Mrs O £100 compensation 
*Where Mrs O is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 
