DRN-3201740
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has not been of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well established, so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead 
I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already covered about 78,500 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be showing some signs of wear and tear, but I don’t think they’d 
expect to experience engine faults that rendered the car undriveable after only a few 
hundred miles.
Miss B took the car to a garage to have the faults diagnosed only 335 miles and one month 
after she entered into the finance agreement. The diagnostic revealed issues with the engine 
misfiring and said there were problems with the engine control module and the power supply 
to the instrument cluster. 
Creation haven’t responded to Miss B, or to us, about these issues and I’ve not therefore 
been able to benefit from their view on whether those faults were present when Miss B took 
receipt of the car.
As the faults were identified so soon I think it’s likely they were issues that were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Miss B. They are therefore issues that Creation are 
responsible for as the car was not of a satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The relevant legislation gives the business an opportunity to repair faults that are present 
from the beginning, but the legislation also expects those repairs to be concluded in a 
reasonable period of time and that can’t fairly be said to be the case here. Miss B reported 
the matter to Creation on 29 September 2020 and they’ve not helped her to resolve matters. 
Miss B has explained that the car has been sitting unused on a driveway since.
In those circumstances I think the fairest solution would be to tell Creation to allow her to 
reject the car.
Miss B has also provided evidence that suggests the car was advertised as having a full 
service history, but didn’t. On the basis of that limited but uncontested evidence it would 
suggest the car had been misrepresented to Miss B. In those circumstances the redress I’d 
be ordering would be the same as I’ve detailed below. So, even if I’m wrong about the car 
not being of satisfactory quality I think Miss B should still be able to reject it and in the 
following manner.
Putting things right
Creation should collect the car at no cost to Miss B and they should end the finance 
agreement.
They’ll need to refund any deposit Miss B has paid and, as she’s been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has had to arrange and pay for a diagnostic report on the car’s condition in order to 
support her claim. I think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, Creation should refund the £49.99 that report cost, adding interest 
as Miss B has been deprived of that money.
Miss B has been inconvenienced by these issues. She’s had to take the car back to a 
garage and then for a diagnostic and she’s had to escalate her complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier if Creation had cooperated. In those 
circumstances Creation should pay Miss B £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she’s experienced.
Miss B had only driven a few hundred miles when the car failed, and she’s explained that 
she hasn’t used it since. Creation have had an opportunity to dispute that use but haven’t. 
So, I think it’s fair to say that Miss B has had very limited use of the car. In those 
circumstances I think Creation should refund all of the finance instalments she’s paid 
towards her agreement, adding interest as Miss B has been deprived of that money.
Miss B has explained that the car is now SORN and hasn’t been used since it broke down 
on 21 September 2020. In those circumstances it wouldn’t be fair for her to be paying to 
insure or tax the car since that date as she has had no use of it. Creation should therefore 
refund any insurance or road tax that Miss B has paid and can evidence to them, to cover 
the car from 21 September 2020. They’ll need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has also explained that she hasn’t been able to benefit from the warranty she had for 
the car. She’s provided a copy of the advert that explains the car is provided with a 15-month 
warranty and a copy of the warranty guarantee. The car sales price was £11,999 but there’s 
no breakdown of the warranty cost. The warranty cost isn’t broken down on the hire 
purchase agreement either so it wouldn’t be fair to ask Creation to refund anything as on the 
basis of the documentation the warranty appears to have been provided free of charge.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
1. End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss B.
2. Refund the deposit of £3,000.
3. Refund all payments Miss B has made under the agreement in respect of the lack of 
use she’s experienced.
4. Refund the £49.99 Miss B paid to have faults diagnosed on the car.
5. Refund consequential costs relating to road tax and insurance if Miss B can provide 
evidence she paid for these after 21 September 2020 when the car broke down.
6. Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts in points 2,3,4 and 5 above, 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
7. Pay Miss B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
8. Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Miss B’s credit file in 
relation to these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
