 
 
DRN-5265290 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd “Creation” rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 “The Act”. 
 
What happened 
Mr M bought solar panels (the system) for his home in 2021. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations and/or 
breach of contract by the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr M alleges 
that the supplier did not correctly install the system (or it is inherently faulty) and it has not 
performed in line with expectations. He would like a full refund of the amounts he paid for the 
system, or he wanted the system to be inspected and repaired (potentially having optimisers 
fitted) in order to make sure the system does perform as it was designed to. The system was 
installed in the middle of July 2021.  
 
Mr M appears to have raised concerns over the performance of the system as part of a 
survey carried out by the supplier. On 10 January 2022, the supplier responded to Mr M 
saying that it felt the system was working as they expected it to, and the readings looked 
good. They set out the readings from July (half month) to December 2021 in the email.  
 
In March 2023, in order to try to improve the performance of the system, Mr M paid a third-
party supplier to fit more panels to his roof. Mr M says other than fitting some more panels 
and upgrading the inverter (to enable the new panels to function), the existing system was 
left untouched.  
 
Still unhappy with the way the system was performing, Mr M raised a section 75 claim in 
2024. After liaising with the suppliers, Creation said Mr M used a third-party supplier to 
modify the system in 2023 and the problems with the system performance is attributed to 
that modification so Creation did not uphold his complaint. Mr M then referred the matter to 
this service.  
 
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the problems 
with the system performance were present from installation, so she asked Creation to 
inspect the system, make any repairs and give Mr M £50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused. During the course of our investigation, Creation also told us that whilst Mr M 
had initially been quoted for a 3.3 kWp system of 11 panels, on the day of installation, he 
was given a quote for a 3.0 kWp system of 10 panels as they were unbale to fit the 11 
panels. But Mr M was charged for the 11-panel system. Because of this, our investigator 
also asked creation to refund the amount Mr M had been overcharged by.  
 
Mr M agreed with our investigator’s view of the complaint and the remedy recommended. 
But Creation still re-iterated that the system’s poor performance was post 2023 – when the 
third-party supplier made changes to the system. It felt Mr M was obligated to independently 
prove that the system was faulty as the performance issues happened more than 6 months 
after installation.  
 
As the complaint couldn’t be resolved by our investigator, I’ve been asked to make a 
 
 
decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Creation agrees that section 
75 of The Act applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Creation, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way 
he could have claimed against the supplier. So, I’ve taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case. 
 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this complaint and I’ll explain why.  
 
Price paid for the system.  
 
I can see Mr M was given two quotes - one in May 2021 for a system with 11 panels with an 
estimated generation of 2269 kWh and one in July 2021 with 10 panels with an estimated 
annual generation of 2021 kWh. The bigger system cost £7,711.28 and the slightly smaller 
system cost £7,459.53.  
 
Creation says it was the smaller system that was installed, but Mr M’s credit agreement 
shows he paid £7,711.28. It does look like he was overcharged so, as recommended by our 
investigator, I think Creation should refund to Mr M the amount he has overpaid.  
 
I will, however note, that Mr M’s MCS certificate which is normally registered by the supplier 
indicates that he had the 3.3 kWp system installed with an estimated annual output of 
2269 kWh. The MCS certificate should reflect the actual system installed, so to me, it does 
look like the supplier has made mistakes in this installation. It changed the size of the system 
on the day of installation and subsequently registered a system which is bigger than the 
actual system installed.  
 
Performance of the system  
 
Creation has repeatedly asserted that the problems with the system performance began 
after 2023 when Mr M paid for a third-party supplier to add further panels to the system. But 
its supplier’s own readings from the first 6 months show the system was significantly 
underperforming post installation, and Creation hasn’t once explained why that happened, or 
why its supplier told Mr M that the system was performing in line with expectations, when it 
clearly wasn’t.  
 
The readings set out by the supplier in its email of 18 January 2022 says the following:  
 
July 2021 - 63.9 kWh (only half month as the system wasn’t installed until the middle of July)  
August 2021 – 200 kWh 
Sept 2021- 126 kWh  
Oct 2021- 80.6 kWh 
November – 36.8 kWh 
December 2021: 20.2 kWh 
 
Without including the month of July given that it only covered half the month, the total from 1 
August to the 31 December 20921 – was only 463.6 kWh. This gives an annual generation 
1113.25 kWh.  
 
 
 
I think it’s very clear that this system was underperforming during the first 6 months post 
installation and despite this being raised by Mr M, he was told by the suppliers that the 
readings were good, and the system was performing as expected. I don’t see how that can 
be the case. The system should perform in line with the MCS certificate of 2269 KWh, but 
even if we accept that the supplier made a mistake and registered an incorrect sized system, 
and the system was in fact a 3.0 kWp system, then the estimated annual generation should 
be 2021 kWh. And the readings above, falls so far below that, I don’t think it’s fair for 
Creation to claim, that it was performing as it was meant to until the system was modified in 
March 2023.  
 
An updated meter reading from August 2024 – shows the system is still significantly 
underperforming with an annual general of around 940.87 kWh and this is despite additional 
panels being added in 2023. 
 
Third party installer  
 
I understand Creation’s concerns about a third-party installer being involved in trying to 
increase output, and that Mr M doesn’t seem to have raised his complaint until 2024, after 
using a third party to try to remedy the problem. But its clear that Mr M appears to have 
raised his concerns over the performance directly to the supplier, only to be told that the 
system readings were good. Although it would have been preferrable for him to have raised 
this with Creation in the first instance, I don’t think it’s unreasonable (given the response he 
received from the original supplier), for him to have then sought the advice and help of a 
third-party installer.  
 
Summary  
 
Having considered all the available evidence, I am satisfied that this system has significantly 
underperformed since installation, and the problems have existed long before Mr M made 
any modifications using the third-party installer.  
 
I feel Mr M has raised his concerns directly with the supplier and then sought to try to 
remedy the problem himself. Unless an inspection shows differently, I have no reason to 
doubt Mr M’s testimony that beyond the changes he’s told us about, the original system has 
been left untouched and Creation should be able to order an inspection of the system and 
explain why it is underperforming so significantly – and remedy it. If Creation is unable to 
explain why the system is underperforming so significantly, and has been doing so since 
installation, and is unable to therefore remedy it, it needs to work with Mr M to find a solution. 
If Mr M remains unhappy with Creation following its inspection – he can refer the matter to 
us as part of a separate complaint.  
 
The supplier seems to have overcharged Mr M for a larger system, and then registered the 
larger system despite installing a smaller system. I think Creation also needs to put this right.  
 
I’m satisfied Mr M has experienced inconvenience in trying to resolve matters and Creation 
should compensate him for the trouble and upset caused. 
 
Putting things right 
• 
Creation should refund the amount Mr M has been overcharged by (the difference 
between what he paid £7,711.28 and what he should have paid £7,459.53.). If 
possible, Mr M should be given an MCS certificate to reflect the actual system that 
has been installed.  
 
 
 
• 
Creation needs to have the system inspected and put right any faults with the system 
that is causing the underperformance.  
 
• 
Creation must pay Mr M £50 for the trouble and upset caused.  
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2025. 
  
 
Asma Begum 
Ombudsman 
 
