DRN-3425409
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a mattress she bought using finance provided by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974). This says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I can understand Mrs S’s disappointment and frustration as she’s clearly unhappy with the 
mattress she bought. She’s explained that the sales agent told her it was medium firm, but 
she has found it very soft and uncomfortable. 
But for me to decide Creation have been unreasonable when rejecting Mrs S’s section 75 
claim I would need to have evidence that the mattress is either not what was promised or is 
not of adequate quality and I’m afraid I don’t think Mrs S has been able to provide that.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) gives consumers the right to a repair or replacement when 
goods are supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. But the Act says there’s an exception 
when the defect should have been obvious during the consumer pre-sale inspection. Here 
Mrs S has explained that she didn’t lie on the mattress, but she did press it with her hand. I 
think it’s reasonable to expect a consumer to try a mattress before buying it and I think it 
should therefore have been obvious to Mrs S before she made the purchase that the bed 
wasn’t firm enough for her. So, I don’t think there’s sufficient evidence that the bed was of 
unsatisfactory quality and that the contract had therefore been breached.
If Mrs S was told something that was false and if she wouldn’t have gone ahead with the 
purchase if she hadn’t been told that, then I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and I’d then ask Creation to take some action. Unfortunately, I’ve not 
been provided with a copy of the advert or any product data to compare the product against 
and whilst Mrs S says she was told the product was firmer the business dispute that. I don’t 
therefore think I have enough information to suggest the product was misrepresented to 
Mrs S. Overall, I won’t be asking Creation to take any further action as I don’t think they’ve 
been unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
