 
 
DRN-5305323 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr J has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd “Creation” responded to 
his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
 
What happened 
Mr J bought a solar panel system for his home in 2022 – this also included a battery. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr J 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr J into believing that that the 5.2 kWh battery could be 
used to its full capacity – but he later discovered he could only utilise 80% of its capacity.  
 
Mr J felt he had been mis-led about the battery, and that while the supplier had used 
firmware to increase the battery’s efficiency – to 100%, it hadn’t been transparent about the 
way this update was installed. He had agreed to the update but assumed it was a general 
update and he hadn’t known about the problem with the battery utilisation issues. He felt the 
supplier had mis-led him and hadn’t been transparent about the issues with the battery.  
 
Creation didn’t uphold his complaint. It said that it had considered his section 75 claim but 
felt the supplier using firmware to ensure the battery can be used to its full 100% capacity 
was a fair solution.  It also said the supplier had offered him £100 for the inconvenience he 
had suffered. Creation also pointed out that Mr J had taken the supplier to an alternative 
dispute resolution service directly, which also found that the supplier’s solution was a fair 
outcome. Finally, Creation said Mr J’s concerns about the lifespan and efficiency was not 
backed up by any evidence.  
 
Mr J reiterated that he didn’t feel the solution was a fair resolution to his complaint so 
referred the matter to this service. He said that when the supplier asked him about the 
update, it hadn’t told him why the update was necessary so he agreed to it unaware that 
he’d been given a battery that couldn’t be used to its full capacity. He added that the battery 
and firmware wasn’t being sold in the general market – and the battery is now marketed at 
being able to only utilise 80% of its capacity. He added that he believed the firmware would 
affect the lifespan and effectiveness of the battery.  
 
Mr J’s complaint was considered by one of our investigator’s. She didn’t agree with Mr J’s 
complaint. While she felt that the supplier had led him to believe that the battery could be 
used to its full capacity, at the time of sale, it had believed this was the case. The issues with 
the battery came to light a few months later. She also felt the firmware update was a fair 
response to the issue and she didn’t think Creation needed to do anything more. She also 
highlighted that the battery was under warranty and the manufacturer had agreed that the 
warranty would be unaffected by the update (and it seemed like the firmware had come from 
the manufacturer). She reiterated that the manufacturer had said the firmware would 
improve the performance of the battery.  
 
Mr J disagreed. He reiterated that he was concerned about the lifespan and effectiveness of 
the battery so had the firmware removed (using a party other than the supplier). So, the 
battery was now again only able to utilise 80% of its capacity. He felt if the firmware had 
 
 
been an appropriate fix, it would be sold in the general market alongside the battery so it 
could be used to maximise the battery’s usage, rather than the battery being sold as only 
being able to use 80% of its capacity. He felt this supported his claim that the firmware would 
impact the efficiency and lifespan of the battery. Mr J asked for a period of 6 weeks to 
enable him to submit further evidence.   
 
As the complaint couldn’t be resolved by our investigator, I’ve been asked to make a 
decision having waited the 6 weeks. No further evidence has been submitted.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
It may be helpful to explain that I need to consider whether Creation – as a provider of 
financial services – has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr J’s claim. But 
it’s important to note Creation isn’t the supplier. Section 75 is a statutory protection that 
enables Mr J to make a ‘like claim’ against Creation for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by a supplier paid using a fixed sum loan in respect of an agreement it 
had with him for the provision of goods or services.  
 
There are certain conditions that need to be met for section 75 to apply. From what I’ve 
seen, those conditions have been met and Creation has also appeared to agree that Section 
75 applies.  
 
I’ve considered if there is persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier that means Creation should have offered something different when handling 
Mr J’s claim. But I want to explain from the outset that I can only consider Mr J’s complaint 
on that narrow basis – that is, whether it was fair and reasonable for Creation to respond to 
his claim in the way it did, of if anything further should have been offered. 
 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
It’s not in dispute that Mr J was sold a 5.2kWh battery and was told it could be utilised to 
100% of its capacity. The sales quotation document does set this out. It’s also not in dispute 
that upon installation – this is not what Mr J received. There was a false statement made. 
Mr J said this induced him, so it could be considered a misrepresentation, albeit an innocent 
one. It’s also not in dispute the goods weren’t as described which could be a breach of 
contract. Breach of contract and misrepresentation have different remedies that could be 
applied, so I’ve considered what’s happened next and if anything else needs to be done.  
 
So, as explained above, the matter left in dispute is whether this matter has been put right 
fairly and reasonably or whether Creation, as the finance provider, needs to do something 
differently. Like our investigator, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly by making the decision 
not to offer Mr J anything different and I’ll explain why.  
 
The manufacturer (through the supplier) produced a firmware update that enabled Mr J’s 
battery to work at 100% of its capacity which is what he was promised at the point of sale 
and what Mr J wanted. I think this resolves the issues above – as at this point Mr J had a 
battery without the capacity limitations he hadn’t wanted.  
 
Mr J also accepted the update when it was offered to him. I understand Mr J said the 
supplier hadn’t broken down exactly what the update was for, and he has assumed it was a 
general update – he feels the supplier hadn’t been fully transparent. But I’ve seen an 
 
 
example of the email sent offering the update – and it did say that it would improve the 
performance of the battery and that there would be new upper and lower limits. I understand 
it doesn’t appear to break down the capacity issues in the way Mr J would’ve liked – but I 
think with products such as this, the balance in providing technical information and not 
confusing customers is a difficult one. And Mr J could’ve asked for further information at the 
time if he had wanted more details – instead he went ahead and accepted the update.   
 
I understand Mr J simply does not want this battery and wants one that is sold in the general 
market with 5.2kWh capacity or above that runs at 100%. He is worried, understandably, 
about the lifespan and durability of the battery following the firmware update. I understand to 
such an extent that he’s now had the battery reverted back to running at its original 80% 
capacity.  
 
I sympathise with Mr J’s concerns about the lifespan of the battery with the firmware update. 
But generally, a machine running continually at 100% may not last as long as that same 
machine running at 80%. Manufacturers can cap different products at certain capacities to 
encourage them to last longer but this doesn’t mean the products are inherently faulty or 
aren’t of satisfactory quality. And I have to bear in mind that Mr J had wanted a battery that 
could and would run at 100% and had the durability of a battery that runs at 100% - this was 
what he was ultimately given.  
 
I’m not a battery expert and am reliant on the evidence being produced by both parties to a 
complaint. I’ve seen no supporting evidence that this firmware update has impacted the 
durability or lifespan of the battery to such an extent that it’s no longer of satisfactory quality. 
The firmware update appears to have been done by the manufacturer itself rather than some 
workaround created by a third party and Creation has confirmed the warranty has remained 
unaffected by the update. And the update was accepted by Mr J at the time it was offered.  
So, without sufficient supporting evidence, I don’t think Creation was unfair to not uphold his 
complaint on the basis that any problems had not been effectively remedied.  
 
Overall, I’m satisfied that Mr J was sold a battery that did not work as he was promised it 
would. But I’m also satisfied that, based on the available evidence, the supplier produced an 
effective update which was a fair and reasonable solution to the problem. So, I don’t think 
Creation acted unfairly by refusing to offer Mr J any further remedies in response to his claim 
against it. I understand the supplier also offered Mr J £100 for the inconvenience he 
suffered, and, in this case, I can’t fairly direct Creation to pay any more.   
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2025. 
  
 
Asma Begum 
Ombudsman 
 
