DRN-4040419
The complaint
Mr K has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In August 2013, Mr K bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr K complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, and 
he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the sale 
created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr K had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr K’s complaint, she ultimately thought that – 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr K and 
Creation. 
She recommended that Mr K keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr K had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. 
Mr K accepted the investigator’s view. Creation said it was seeking external legal counsel 
and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from it. So, the case was progressed 
to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My findings on jurisdiction
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr K’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr K’s s.75 claim on 
29 April 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr K 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 28 May 2020. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr K. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 28 May 2020, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 26 August 2013. Mr K brought his s.75 claim to Creation 
on 18 November 2019 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with it. 
Given this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. 
So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr K has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive. Mr K said he was reassured by M’s 
representative that this was a government backed scheme to ensure carbon targets were 
reached. That a government subsidy would be paid in addition to meet any shortfalls against 
the loan cost.
Mr K has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr K to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
I don’t have a copy of the loan agreement, we’ve asked Creation to provide this multiple 
times however it’s not done so. Mr K has provided a loan statement and a Creation welcome 
letter, looking at these documents I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr K’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. Given I don’t have a copy of the agreement I’m not able to 
say with certainty if the total amount payable, and the monthly cost of the loan were clear to 
Mr K.  
I’ve considered the contract signed by Mr K and M. The likely financial benefits of the system 
aren’t included on this document, so in any case there was no way for Mr K to compare his 
total costs against the financial benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
Mr K has said the financial benefits were discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. I’ve looked at a copy of M’s website from September 2013, 
on the Solar PV page, under financial predictions it states –
Along with the above, potential benefits of a solar panel system purchased from M are 
mentioned several times on the website. I think it follows that if the website heavily 
emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the profit and return on the investment 
(as mentioned above), it’s likely this would have been a central part of M’s conversation 
when selling the product. 
So, I find what Mr K’s said believable, I think M’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation. 
Given the contract doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr K would have looked to 
M’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they 
would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In September 2014, and later in November 2015, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and accurate
information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
I’m also aware that Citizens Advice Bureau (‘CAB’) carried out analysis on 292 cases where 
consumers had contacted it for advice about M. It then provided a statement to RECC about 
M in September 2015. This statement raised a number of issues with M’s conduct, including 
but not limited to, misleading marketing claims where consumers were told that the solar 
panels were ‘free’ and that the FIT payments ‘would comfortably cover the loan repayments 
on their finance deals’.
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC and CAB were looking 
at, the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr 
K’s complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr K’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr K left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £137, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr K’s account of what he was told by M, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,644 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr K’s 
system was not performing as expected, but his system has not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think M’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr K’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think M's 
representative would have known that Mr K’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr K.
Considering Mr K’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr 
K a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr K was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr K went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr K’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr K in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr K 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr K and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
K a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
M’s assurances. That is, that Mr K’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr K received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr K received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr K 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to deal with Mr K’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr K some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr K £200.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr K’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr K has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr K should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr K 
*Where Mr K has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also think the way Creation handled Mr K’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset,
and an award of £200 is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman
