DRN-3857434
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy with the interest that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has 
applied to her finance account. 
What happened
Miss V took out a financing agreement with Creation on 24 July 2021. This was used to 
purchase a laptop from a company I shall call G, at a cost of £718. The agreement had a 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period of 12 months included and therefore interest wouldn’t 
become applicable until after 24 July 2022. The monthly payments were given as £46.71 
with 24 payments being required to repay the finance. 
Miss V made two £50 manual payments towards the agreement inside the BNPL period and 
believed the balance was being reduced further by the monthly £46.71 direct debit 
repayments. In July 2022, Miss V realised the direct debits hadn’t been taken and the 
outstanding balance was therefore considerably higher than she expected. 
Miss V says she tried to contact Creation via its online message portal and by calling but 
couldn’t reach it or get a reply. Miss V did manage to speak to someone in Creation’s call 
centre and was told her balance would not increase. This was incorrect and interest was 
applied. Miss V called Creation again following this, but that call was unproductive with the 
advisor being unhelpful. 
Miss V therefore logged a formal complaint with Creation. Creation responded and said that 
Miss V’s credit agreement clearly explained when the BNPL period was due to end and that 
interest would apply if the full balance wasn’t repaid by then. Creation paid Miss V £80 for 
the incorrect information and the poor service she received, but said the interest remained 
payable. 
Unhappy with this Miss V brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at the complaint and concluded that Miss V was made sufficiently aware of when the 
BNPL deadline was and that the direct debit payments weren’t being made. Therefore, 
Creation hasn’t acted unfairly in applying the interest it did. 
Miss V didn’t agree and said she gave her direct debit details to G and naturally assumed 
the payments would start the following month. She said it wasn’t made clear the DD would 
start a year later and not from the outset. 
As Miss V didn’t agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not 
because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I’ve reviewed Miss V’s finance agreement, and this clearly explains that the BNPL period 
ends on 24 July 2022. The agreement goes on to say: 
“Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the payments do 
not clear the amount in full. If you pay £718 by this date you won’t be charged any interest. If 
you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the credit amount due, you will have to 
make monthly repayments of £46.71 starting on 24 August 2022. Any balance left to pay 
after this date will incur interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified in your 
credit agreement.”
Creation has also provided a copy of further correspondence it sent on 24 July 2021, 
regarding the direct debit. This correspondence confirmed the setup of the direct debit, the 
amount and that the first payment date would be 24 August 2022. 
Miss V electronically signed the agreement and by doing so agreed to be bound by its terms 
and conditions. Miss V has said that she didn’t see the agreement, or any direct debit form 
until after she had already signed. If this was the case, it would be for Miss V to be 
comfortable with the terms of the agreement before signing it. 
However, even if the documents were only available after Miss V had signed the finance 
agreement, Miss V would have been able to read it then. I’m satisfied the agreement did 
make it clear no direct debit would be taken until August 2022, after the BNPL period had 
ended. The agreement has a 14-day cancellation period that Miss V could also have 
exercised had she been unhappy with any of the terms. 
Creation has provided evidence that Miss V registered for its Online Account Manager 
service. With this service she was able to see her statements and other key documents 
online. Miss V has explained that she didn’t know she could view these documents. 
Creations records show that Miss V did access her September 2021 and March 2022 
statements online. The statements were generated after her manual £50 payments. Given 
this, I’m satisfied Miss V knew how to use the online account manager service. 
Both the September 2021 and March 2022 statements showed that no direct debit was in 
place and made it clear that there was “no payment due at this time.” The balance showing 
on both statements would have also been significantly higher than it would have been had 
direct debits been made every month, like Miss V says she believed was happening. I 
would’ve expected Miss V to raise her concerns at this time regarding the direct debit 
payment not being made as she expected. 
I fully appreciate that Miss V’s intention was to repay Creation by direct debit. But I’m 
satisfied Creation made it clear in the terms of the agreement that no direct debit payments 
would occur until after the BNPL period had ended. It provided statements that Miss V 
accessed that also showed no direct debit was in place. 
Miss V says she was able to speak to someone at Creation when she became aware the 
direct debits hadn’t been taken. It isn’t disputed that Miss V was given incorrect information 
regarding her balance not increasing on this call. In her complaint form to this service Miss V 
says the call took place the day before her BNPL was due to expire (24 July 2022). In her 
complaint email to Creation, the date Miss V gave for this call is 25 July 2022. In its final 
response, Creation has explained that this call took place on 27 July 2022. 
In any event, regardless of when the call took place, I don’t believe Miss V would have acted 
differently had the correct information been provided. Therefore, the wrong information 
hasn’t caused any detriment to her. Creation has paid Miss V £80 for the incorrect 
information and poor service it provided. Miss V confirmed her acceptance of this and 
therefore I haven’t commented further. 
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss V, but I’m satisfied in 
this case that Creation hasn’t acted unfairly in applying the interest it did.
My final decision
I don’t uphold Miss V’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman
