DRN-4447895
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited. 
Mr H has been represented but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to Mr H throughout. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties, so I won’t go over 
everything again in detail. But, in summary, Mr H acquired a used car under a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation in May 2022. It was around three years old; it cost around £33,000 
and had covered around 48,500 miles. The agreement was to be paid back over four years. 
Mr H also paid £450 for a 3-year warranty.
I understand the car broke down in July 2022 and was recovered to a third-party garage. 
The third-party garage inspected the car and said it found a gear oil leak from the rear 
differential, which had exploded. It said it believed this was down to the car having too much 
power at the rear wheels and suspected a performance map on the engine control unit 
(ECU). I understand the selling dealer eventually agreed to carry out a repair on the car and 
a courtesy car was supplied at the time. 
Mr H said there were further problems with the car and so complained to Creation. I 
understand he said the car had no resonator, there were other faults, and that there were 
problems with the battery. He wanted to reject the car. Creation responded to say it had tried 
to contact Mr H to request a report showing the faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply but didn’t receive what it asked for. It rejected the claim, and Mr H asked the 
Financial Ombudsman to investigate. In summary, Mr H complained about faults with the 
car, and that it had been modified but he was told it was a stock vehicle. The modifications 
impacted the insurance quotes he was able to obtain. And he was worried about getting an 
MOT on the car due to the modifications. The mileage as of around August 2023 was around 
52,600. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought there was enough evidence to 
demonstrate there was a fault with the car that made it of unsatisfactory quality. But our 
investigator noted this initial fault had been repaired for Mr H, which seemed to have 
resolved the issue. Our investigator asked Mr H for evidence of further problems with the car 
but hadn’t seen enough to show there were further faults that made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
Our investigator also thought about what Mr H had said about being misled about the car by 
the supplying dealer. He said that Creation could be held responsible for antecedent 
negotiations carried out by the dealer. He noted Mr H had said he specifically asked the 
dealer if the car had been modified and was told it hadn’t been. Our investigator said he 
didn’t know exactly what was spoken about at the point of supply but given Mr H didn’t ask to 
reject the car when he found out the car may have been mapped, even if the supplying 
dealer did misinform Mr H, he didn’t think this induced him into the agreement. 
Our investigator did, however, think Creation should pay Mr H £350 in relation to the 
inconvenience caused as a result of being supplied a car that was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Creation paid this to Mr H. But Mr H didn’t accept the outcome. In summary he said:

He was disappointed with the outcome and didn’t agree with the investigator’s 
timeline of when contact was made. 

The supplying dealer didn’t carry out repairs as promised. It repaired the faults that 
caused the car to break down but didn’t resolve the resonator issue or bodywork 
problems as promised. It had one chance to repair all the issues and it failed to do 
that. 

He doesn’t understand how it was beneficial for the supplying dealer to pay to 
transport the car to it for repairs and not have them carried out by a more local dealer 
to Mr H. The supplying dealer hadn’t given him evidence of what work was carried 
out. 

The supplying dealer misled Mr H at the point of supply. 

It took a long time for Creation to respond. 

The supplying dealer told Mr H not to let the warranty company know about the 
resonator issue because it could void the warranty. 

The insurance costs went up significantly when Mr H sought quotes that included 
modifications, and that he wouldn’t have bought the car if he’d known the insurance 
would have been that much. 

He was going to try to obtain call records so he could show when he tried to contact 
Creation about the problem post-repair. 

The compensation wasn’t sufficient. 
As things weren’t resolved, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked our 
investigator to contact Mr H to set out a few points and to see if he wanted to add anything 
further. I noted Mr H hadn’t supplied all the evidence our investigator asked for so wanted to 
give Mr H another opportunity to submit information. I asked our investigator to explain:

We don’t have any evidence of what repairs were undertaken in 2022 by way of job 
cards for example. 

We don’t have sufficient evidence the car had actually been remapped or when that 
might have happened. We don’t have any comments from the supplying dealer about 
whether the car was remapped before it was sold. Mr H also hasn’t explained why 
the remapping can’t simply be removed. 

We don’t have sufficient evidence of anything currently wrong with the car which 
would have made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. 

We’ve not got a clear timeline setting out what happened from when the initial repair 
was carried out to when the complaint was investigated from March 2023. 

We’ve not seen what’s happened to the car over the last few months and whether it’s 
insured and being used. 
I asked out investigator to set out that without supporting evidence it’s difficult to reach 
conclusions that there’s anything wrong with the car that Creation is responsible for, or that 
Mr H was misled at the point of supply. 
Mr H responded to say he was waiting for records from his mobile phone provider, but he 
was unable to supply them. He said he was unable to supply other evidence and that the 
supplying dealer wouldn’t provide evidence of the repairs it had carried out. He reiterated 
he’d sent information from a third-party garage setting out what was wrong with the car. He 
said the supplying dealer told Mr H it would remove the remapping when it carried out 
repairs, but he was still unhappy he felt he was misled at the point of supply. He said he’d 
lost faith in the supplying dealer and reiterated the car was mis sold.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any 
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I’m required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr H and Creation that I’ve 
reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s not because I haven’t 
considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
Mr H acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr H entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. Creation 
is the supplier of the goods under the agreement and is therefore responsible for dealing 
with a complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory – taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of delivery.  
In Mr H’s case, the car was used when it was supplied and had already covered around 
48,500 miles. I think a reasonable person would have different expectations of it compared 
to a new car. But I’m conscious it cost around £33,000. So I don’t think a reasonable person 
would have expected it to have any significant issues with it when it was acquired. 
Like our investigator found, on balance, I think there was a fault with the car based on what 
I’ve seen. It doesn’t seem to be in dispute the car broke down a couple of months after it was 
supplied. We have an email from a third-party garage saying there was an oil leak from the 
rear differential, which had exploded. Given Mr H had only acquired it a couple of months 
before and taking into account the price paid, age and mileage of it, this fault likely made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality. The CRA sets out the trader is able to have an opportunity to 
repair faults in these situations. While I appreciate Mr H says it initially wasn’t going to help, I 
understand the fault that caused the breakdown was repaired. And the supplying dealer 
gave Mr H a courtesy car, which seems broadly fair. 
I also agree with our investigator that the matter no doubt caused some general distress and 
inconvenience to Mr H. The car broke down, it had to be recovered, and it needed to be 
collected and transported to the supplying dealer for repair. Our investigator recommended 
Creation pay £350 compensation for this, and it agreed. In the round, that seems broadly a 
fair way to resolve that part of the complaint. So I’m not going to direct Creation to do more. 
What’s left in dispute is whether the car was mis sold in the first place. And whether or not 
the car has faults now that make it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. If there 
were current faults with the car that make it of unsatisfactory quality (at the point of supply), 
there might’ve been grounds for Mr H to seek to reject it because the trader has already had 
its chance of repair. Moreover, if there was sufficient evidence Mr H was misled by the 
supplying dealer, and that he was induced into the contract by a false statement of fact, 
there might’ve been grounds to end the agreement because under section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, Creation can be held responsible for antecedent negotiations 
carried out by the supplying dealer (broker) in these sorts of scenarios. Generally speaking, 
Creation can’t be held responsible for the service supplied by the supplying dealership after 
the agreement was entered into. I think this is important to note because Mr H has 
expressed dissatisfaction with service supplied from the dealer after he’d entered into the 
agreement. 
The problem I have is that I don’t have enough evidence that firstly Mr H was misled at the 
point of supply. And secondly that the car currently doesn’t conform to the contract – in that it 
has faults that were present or developing at point of supply. Our investigator asked for 
supporting evidence. I also asked Mr H again prior to looking to write a decision, but Mr H 
hasn’t been able to supply sufficient evidence. 
I appreciate Mr H says the supplying dealer wouldn’t provide him what he asked for. It would 
have been helpful had the supplying dealer provided comments about what was discussed 
at the point of supply, along with job cards for what work was carried out. But Mr H was 
given the opportunity to show us what is currently wrong with the car but hasn’t done so. 
This didn’t need to come from the supplying dealer. Without evidence of what’s wrong with 
the car currently, I can’t say that there are faults that make it of unsatisfactory quality, and 
which give him the grounds to reject it. 
With regards to being misled at the point of supply, Mr H said he specifically asked whether 
there were any modifications to the car and was told there weren’t. It’s hard to reach firm 
conclusions on what was discussed verbally. But even if I were to accept what Mr H said, the 
only evidence I have the vehicle might have been remapped is an email from a third-party 
garage saying this was suspected. There’s an indication this might’ve been removed from 
the car when repairs were carried out, but I’ve not been given supporting evidence of that. 
And I’ve not been given supporting evidence of any other modifications. 
In all the circumstances, while I’m not saying something hasn’t gone wrong, I don’t think 
Creation acted unfairly by declining the claim, based on the lack of supporting evidence.  
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Limited agreed to pay Mr H £350 to resolve the complaint. I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman
