DRN-4667206
The complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd reduced his credit limit, which 
negatively impacted his credit score.
What happened
Mr E holds a running credit account with Creation. On 11 October 2023 Creation wrote to Mr 
E and advised him that it was reducing his credit limit from £5000 to £1250.
Mr E complained to Creation. He said the reduction of his credit limit had adversely impacted 
his credit score because he was now using a higher proportion of the new reduced limit. He 
thought this was unfair and said he wanted Creation to reinstate the credit limit to what it was 
before the reduction, and to contact the credit reference agencies to advise them that 
reducing his credit limit was an error.
Creation didn’t uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated 11 January 2024 it said 
its credit limits are regularly reviewed and the decision to reduce Mr E’s limit was based on 
information from credit reference agencies and its own internal lending criteria. Creation said 
it couldn’t disclose specifically what led it to take the decision to reduce Mr E’s credit limit 
and it wasn’t able to reinstate the previous credit limit.
Mr E remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said the terms and conditions of the credit 
agreement allowed Creation to change the credit limit from time to time. He also said that the 
decision to reduce the credit limit was a commercial decision made by Creation and not one 
with which this service could interfere.
Mr E didn’t agree. He said the information held by the credit reference agencies when his 
credit limit was reduced was the same as when he had applied for the account. He said it 
wasn’t the credit limit which was the issue but the fact that it had been lowered so much that 
it now showed that he was utilising 80% of his available credit when previously it was 25%. 
He said that this had impacted his credit score. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve reviewed the terms and conditions of the account and the pre contract credit information. 
Both of these documents were provided to Mr E when he took out the credit account.  The 
pre credit information states that Creation can change the credit limit from time to time 
depending on its assessment of the account and the account holders financial 
circumstances.
Based on what I’ve seen, Creation has the contractual right to change the credit limit. So I’m 
unable to say that it did something wrong when it reduced the limit on Mr E’s account.
Creation has said that the decision to reduce Mr E’s credit limit was based on information it 
obtained from the credit reference agencies and its internal lending criteria. I appreciate that 
Mr E has said that there hasn’t been any change in the information held by the credit 
reference agencies, but as Creation has explained, this isn’t the only factor which it takes 
into account.
Creation has said that it is unable to advise Mr E exactly what criteria was used when the 
decision to reduce the credit limit was made. This is because the information is business 
sensitive. Some of the more common reasons for a credit limit being reduced are (amongst 
others), a change in credit activity (late payments on the account or a decrease in credit 
score), account review (based on the lenders assessment of the consumers financial 
situation, credit history and overall risk) or economic conditions (for instance a recession or 
to reduce the lenders exposure to risk in uncertain financial times). I’m not saying that these 
factors were the reason for the credit limit decrease in Mr E’s case, but they are common 
factors.
I understand that Mr E is disappointed about the impact that the credit limit decrease has 
had on his credit score.  A credit limit decrease can impact on a credit score but not directly. 
The credit utilisation rate is the amount of credit being used compared to total available 
credit across all credit accounts. This ratio is a significant factor in a credit score calculation. 
When a credit limit is decreased, the available credit decreases. So maintaining the same 
credit balance will increase the credit utilisation ratio. Over time this may negatively impact a 
credit score.
There are other factors which can impact on a credit score, such as (for instance) the 
number of credit accounts open, recent applications for credit and late payments. I can’t be 
certain of exactly why Mr E’s credit score has reduced. But even if the reduced credit score 
is solely due to Creation reducing the credit limit, I’m unable to say that Creation has done 
something wrong. The impact on the credit score is (potentially) a consequence of Creation 
reducing the credit limit, which it is contractually allowed to do. 
Because Creation has made a commercial decision to reduce Mr E’s credit limit, I’m unable 
to require it to reinstate the previous limit. Based on what I’ve seen. I’m unable to say that 
Creation has made an error or that it has treated Mr E unfairly. So I won’t be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman
