DRN-4007718
The complaint
Ms B has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA.
What happened
In February 2015, Ms B bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Ms B complained to Creation on 6 August 2021, she said that she was told by M that the 
‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from the system would cover the cost of 
the monthly loan repayments, and the system would pay for itself within eight years. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. She also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and 
Creation. 
Creation wrote to Ms B on 1 October 2021 and said it was unable to provide a response to 
her s.75 claim, it did not mention her complaint regarding s.140A. In the letter it said as it 
was taking longer than expected to resolve things, she could refer her complaint to our 
service, which she promptly did on 15 October 2021.  
Following her referral to our service Creation responded to the complaint in its final 
response, it considered Ms B had brought her complaint outside of the time limits in the rules 
we follow.  
An investigator considered Ms B’s complaint, he thought that – 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms B and 
Creation. 
He recommended that Ms B keep the system and Creation take into account what Ms B had 
paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system was effectively 
self-funding over eight years. 
I can’t see we received a response from Creation, so, the case was progressed to the next 
stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms B’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms B’s s.75 claim 
on 20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Whilst Ms B initially brought her complaint to the ombudsman service on 15 October 2021, 
as Creation gave her the option to do so, she reconfirmed she wanted the service to look at 
it on 28 October 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Ms B. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 15 October 2021, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms B. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Ms B has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity savings she would receive within eight 
years. 
Ms B has said she and her partner were approached by M about the system, and I haven’t 
seen any evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
The investigator has spoken further to Ms B who told us that she and her partner initially 
spoke with M about the system, on or around 12 February 2015. Following this her partner 
was sent an email by M which included a document, containing a graph and a table entitled 
‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’. This table compared the yearly benefits of a 2866 
KWH system, with a voltage optimiser, to yearly finance costs of £1,182.30, over ten years. 
Ms B has said she saw this document before she signed both the contract for the system 
which was estimated to produce 2866 KWH, which included a voltage optimiser, and the 
loan agreement with a yearly loan cost of £1,184.40, over ten years.
I’ve looked at the ‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’, and it appears to support what Ms B 
said she was told about the system. The table shows that although the system would 
generate less benefit than the yearly finance costs in the first two years, by about £227, by 
the third year it would generate a profit which would increase every year thereafter.
On the basis of those calculations the table suggests the loss of £227 in the first two years 
would be recouped by profit from the following three years. And from year nine the panels 
would be paying for themselves with an additional ‘profit’ until the end of the loan agreement. 
The table doesn’t say it’s an estimate or that it’s subject to external criteria being met. 
Furthermore, the electricity cost savings look potentially inflated. I say this as the calculation 
suggests that Ms B would use 100% of the energy produced by the system. This is quite 
high given the standard assessment procedure (“SAP”) calculator and FIT scheme at that 
time were based on 50% self-consumption.  
Having considered Ms B’s account about what happened when she spoke to M, specifically 
that the system would pay for itself within eight years, I find this evidence credible and 
persuasive and supported by the above documentary evidence. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Ms B’s said happened, or the 
documentation supplied. Yet with no prior interest Ms B agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of £98.70, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest 
and the financial burden she took on I find Ms B’s account of what she was told by M, 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she 
would have seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s 
said she received from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within eight years, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of around £1,480.50 per year. I have not seen anything to 
indicate Ms B’s system was not performing as expected, but her system has not produced 
this. So, these statements were not true. I think M’s representative must reasonably have 
been aware that Ms B’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there 
are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think M’s representative would have known that Ms B’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Ms B.
Considering Ms B’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown at 
the time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave 
Ms B a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms B was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Ms B went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms B’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Ms B in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Ms B 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Ms B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances. 
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms B and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the system. Creation should repay Ms B a sum 
that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a result of M’s 
assurances. That is, that Ms B’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits she received from the start date of the loan to the eighth year of the 
agreement. 
I consider the above to be fair compensation because in this case, there is documentary 
evidence to suggest that M appears to have gone further than to suggest the loan would be 
merely self-funding. The ‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’ fully supports Ms B’s 
testimony, that she was told by M’s representative that the loan would have been repaid 
early, within eight years, from the income and savings generated by the system. So, the 
redress should take that into account. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Ms B received from the start date of the loan to the 
eighth year of the agreement, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important 
to consider the benefit Ms B received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Ms B will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Ms B’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Ms B some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Ms B £100.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms B’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Ms B has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of her complaint – A 

Use Ms B’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the eighth year of the agreement* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Ms B should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement of her complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Ms B 

Cancel the remaining loan balance, and show that it was fully repaid in the eighth 
year

Pay Ms B £100 for trouble and upset caused
*Where Ms B has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman
