DRN-4036070
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
has dealt with a claim they made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
What happened
In September 2013, Mr and Mrs S entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system 
from a supplier. They paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement, which they paid 
off in 2016.
Mr and Mrs S wrote to Creation in July 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of 
s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The 
creditor (Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mr and Mrs S’s claim explained that the system had been misrepresented to them. They had 
been told that the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) payments they’d receive for electricity generated and 
exported to the grid would cover the loan repayments, making the system entirely self-
funding.  
Creation responded to say it had no liability, since the claim had been made outside of the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. In this case, Creation said the claim had been 
made more than six years after the alleged misrepresentation had taken place. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint and referred the matter 
to this Service to look into. One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that 
Creation had not acted unfairly by rejecting Mr and Mrs S’s s.75 claim. In summary, our 
investigator said that Mr and Mrs S’s claim against the supplier of the system was made 
outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act. As Creation (as the credit provider) is 
liable to the same extent as the supplier, our adjudicator agreed it had acted reasonably 
when saying the ‘like claim’ against it was made too late. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They didn’t realise they’d been mis-sold the system until several 
years later when they checked their FIT statements and discovered they were less than they 
had expected.
Since our adjudicator could not resolve the complaint, I’ve been asked to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly in its 
response to their s.75 claim. There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when 
reaching my decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of 
Mr and Mrs S’s complaint. In this decision I’ll refer to those that I consider to be most central 
to my conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr and Mrs S’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation and it can 
be held responsible for a purchase Mr and Mrs S made using their credit card. I’m satisfied 
in this instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hadn’t been broken and there’s an 
appropriate relationship between the parties for Creation to consider a s.75 claim. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Mr and Mrs S fairly when it declined their s.75 claim. And as 
the reason Creation gave for declining Mr and Mrs S’s claim was that it was made outside of 
the relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr and Mrs S’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 
are on the same basis of those they could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs S says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
inducement that made them make the purchase. But their s.75 claim is largely that those 
benefits were misrepresented and so they entered a contract which wasn’t the value for 
money they expected. Mr and Mrs S say that, were it not for the misrepresentation about the 
potential benefits, then they wouldn’t have entered the contract to purchase the system at 
all. 
So, Mr and Mrs S’s financial loss occurred when they contracted to pay for the system using 
a fixed sum loan agreement on 28 September 2013. They had six years from that date to 
make their claim. 
Mr and Mrs S raised their claim with Creation in July 2022. This is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and their cause of action accrued. So, the claim was not made 
in time, and neither the supplier nor Creation would have any liability, even if there was a 
misrepresentation. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Mr and Mrs S’s claim against Creation is 
under s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s 
misrepresentation or breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of 
M. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. So, the claim was 
still not made in time. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr and Mrs S’s claim as I’ve already explained they 
raised their complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and 
damage suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Mr and Mrs S 
knew, or ought to have known, that they had a claim for misrepresentation against M. 
Mr and Mrs S would’ve been sent quarterly FIT statements showing how much they were 
being paid for the electricity generated and exported to the grid. I think they ought to have 
known this was not covering the loan repayment upon receipt of those statements – at the 
latest when they’d received four quarterly statements. This would cover a full year, which 
they could easily compare to 12 months of loan repayments. 
So, I think they had both the knowledge and right to bring a claim for damages by early 2015 
at the latest. And this would not extend the time in which they could make a claim – which 
was six years from the date of sale. So, they had to claim by 28 September 2019 at the 
latest. But the claim was not made until July 2022.
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr and Mrs S’s s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide 
whether or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under 
the Limitation Act. But, given the information available, I’m satisfied Creation has applied the 
rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Mr and Mrs S were unable to make a claim within time, 
and so I cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr and Mrs S’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
