DRN-3281648
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed over 53,000 miles so I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the car’s 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr M has provided evidence from an independent garage that demonstrates there were 
faults with this car noted within 30 days of supply. The Engine Management Light was on 
and there were fault codes recorded relating to the Exhaust Gas Recirculation, crank shaft 
sensor and broken wires.
Creation haven’t provided any evidence to demonstrate these faults were not present when 
the car was supplied so I’m satisfied they most probably were.
In those circumstances, as faults had been identified so soon, it may have been possible for 
Mr M to have rejected the car at that point. But the relevant legislation explains that when 
repairs are accepted as a resolution the consumer can’t subsequently change their mind. Mr 
M accepted all the repairs and subsequently arranged his own, successful repair to the car. 
So, I don’t think Creation need to allow Mr M to reject the car, but they should ensure he isn’t 
out of pocket as a result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Creation should refund the cost of the repairs Mr M has had completed to the car if he can 
provide them with receipts or demonstrate the expenses through bank statements. They’ll 
need to add interest to any refunds as Mr M has been deprived of the money.
Mr M has explained that he wasn’t provided with a courtesy car for the periods when the car 
was being repaired. Creation will need to clarify with Mr M and the dealer when the car was 
off the road being repaired. They’ll need to provide a pro rata refund of finance instalments 
for any period Mr M was without the use of the car and they will need to add interest to any 
refund.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. He’s had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think, had Creation been more responsive, it could have been resolved 
earlier. He’s also had to have his car recovered by breakdown services and I can see he’s 
explained the impact all this has had on his mental health. In the circumstances I think 
Creation should pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund the cost of the repairs and diagnostics Mr M has had completed to the car if 
he can provide them with receipts or demonstrate the expenses through bank 
statements. Add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.

Clarify with Mr M and the dealer when the car was off the road being repaired. 
Provide a pro rata refund of finance instalments for any period Mr M was without the 
use of the car and add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
