DRN-3727810
The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) is holding him liable for a 
loan in his name which he says he was scammed into taking out.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In September 2020, a Creation loan was taken out in Mr L’s name and credited to his bank 
account.  The loan funds were then transferred out to a third party.  Mr L argues that as he 
fell victim to a scam – the circumstances of which led to the loan being taken out in his name 
– the loan should be written off.  Creation carried out an investigation and decided to hold Mr 
L liable for the loan.  Unhappy with this, Mr L raised a complaint which he also referred to 
our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr L did not 
accept the investigator’s findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first thing I need to determine in this case is whether Mr L consented to the loan in 
question being taken out in his name.  That is, whether he took the loan out himself, or 
provided consent to another to do so on his behalf.
Based on Mr L’s submissions to Creation and this Service, he accepts that he provided the 
necessary details to a third party so they could take out the loan in his name.  Moreover, the 
loan funds were transferred out to a third party and Mr L made several repayments towards 
the loan thereafter (albeit – as Mr L says – before he knew he was being scammed).
I acknowledge Mr L says that a third party applied for the loan in his name and that he 
neither read nor signed the loan agreement as the third party had access to his emails.  I 
also acknowledge that Mr L says he was ultimately manipulated into applying for the loan by 
someone he had trusted: a person he had met on an online dating app who introduced him 
to a ‘financial adviser’ from a brokerage firm.
However, whilst Mr L may well be a victim of a scam – this does not negate the fact that he 
provided necessary details to a third party to enable them to take out a loan in his name; the 
funds of which Mr L transferred out to a third party.  Based on the evidence before me, there 
is nothing to suggest Creation was aware that Mr L was being scammed at the time the loan 
was taken out.  Therefore, it would not be fair in the circumstances for me to direct Creation 
to write off the loan Mr L consented to being taken out in his name.
Mr L has also raised concerns about Creation’s level of customer service – particularly how 
this has impacted his credit score.  From what I can see, Creation has accepted it caused 
some delays in its handling of this matter.  However, I have not seen any evidence to 
support how these delays impacted Mr L’s credit score.  Further, whilst there have been 
some delays, these have had no bearing on the outcome Creation reached regarding Mr L’s 
fraud claim – which, for the reasons already given, I am persuaded was a fair outcome.  
Therefore, I do not find that compensation is justified for this complaint point.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Creation has acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint, so I will not be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman
