DRN-4822458
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan. 
Background
Creation provided Mr L with a loan of £8,500.00 in May 2023. This loan had an APR of 9.9% 
and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £9,364.32, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £864.62, was due to be repaid in 24 instalments of 
£390.18
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr L and Creation had told us. He thought that 
Creation hadn’t treated Mr L unfairly and so didn’t recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr L disagreed with our investigator’s assessment and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr L’s complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr L’s complaint. I’ll 
explain why in a little more detail.
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr L 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Creation says it agreed to Mr L’s application after he provided details of his annual income. It 
says it also carried out a credit search. It says the credit search showed Mr L had some 
existing debts but these were being managed well and weren’t excessive in comparison to 
his income. 
In Creation’s view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr L could afford to make 
the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr L has said he couldn’t afford 
this loan and it shouldn’t have been provided to him.
I’ve carefully thought about what Mr L and Creation have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Creation has provided the details of its credit searches. 
Creation having carried out credit checks shows that it didn’t simply rely on what Mr L said 
and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information he provided in his 
application. 
Creation searches appear to show that Mr L’s existing commitments were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr L’s debt total at the time of the 
applications was not excessive in comparison to his income. And there isn’t anything else 
obvious in the information gathered at the time which leads me to think that the loan 
payments were unaffordable. So it is arguable that Creation’s checks did go far enough and 
that I was reasonable to lend based on this.
I accept it’s possible that Mr L’s actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information that had been gathered showed. For example, having looked at  
Mr L’s bank statements I do have an idea why he may have gone on to have difficulty with 
this loan, as he says. I also acknowledge that it’s possible – but by no means certain – that 
Creation might have reached a different lending decision had it seen this information.
However, I don’t think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended into 
requesting copies of Mr L’s bank statements in the way that he appears to be suggesting. I 
say this because even if I were to accept that further checks were necessary, because of the 
total amount that Mr L would owe after this loan, which I’m not necessarily persuaded is the 
case, at the absolute best any such checks would only have gone as far as finding out more 
about Mr L’s regular monthly living costs. 
And having considered the information that Mr L has provided, I’m not persuaded that 
Creation supplementing what it already had on Mr L’s credit commitments with details of his 
actual regular monthly living expenses would have shown the monthly payments to this loan 
to be unaffordable. So, in any event, I’m not persuaded that Creation doing more in this 
instance would have resulted in it reaching a different conclusion.
As this is the case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong when deciding to lend to  
Mr L. Arguably it carried out proportionate checks and this in itself suggested the payments 
were affordable. But even if it had done more here and obtained Mr L’s actual regular 
monthly living costs and supplemented what it already had with this, it would still more likely 
that not have reached the conclusion that the monthly repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I don’t think that Creation treated Mr L unfairly 
or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And I’m not upholding Mr L’s complaint. I 
appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr L. But I hope he’ll understand the 
reasons for my decision and that he’ll at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mr L’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
