DRN-3792731
The complaint
Ms G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd unfairly requires her to repay lending it 
provided for goods which she says were returned.
What happened
Ms G purchased a mobile device from a retailer using finance provided by Creation. She 
then asked the retailer if she could return the device and arrangements were made for it to 
be collected.
Ms G says that she left the device in her porch along with another package to be collected 
by a different courier. It subsequently came to light that the courier sent by the retailer had 
collected the wrong package. I understand that it was delivered to the retailer, and 
subsequently returned to Ms G sometime later. 
Ms G enquired about the whereabouts of her mobile device, but it seems the retailer denied 
having received it. Ms G raised a complaint with Creation on the basis that it wasn’t fair to 
ask her to repay sums for goods which had been returned.
Creation said that the retailer had told it the device had not been returned. It declined to 
cancel the finance agreement unless the retailer confirmed receipt of the goods. It also 
suggested that Ms G take the matter up with the retailer and the courier.
Ms G didn’t agree with Creation, so she referred the matter to this service. She said that she 
believed the courier had picked up both packages but only one had been returned to her. 
She provided tracking information for a package which the retailer’s courier had collected.
Our investigator accepted that Ms G was allowed to return the device she purchased. But 
significantly, they didn’t think that Ms G had followed the correct returns process based on 
information found on the retailer’s website as well as relevant regulations. They noted that 
under those regulations Ms G was required to return the goods or hand them to someone 
authorised to receive them. They suggested that by leaving the goods in her porch Ms G 
hadn’t met those requirements. 
They also noted that Creation ought to have considered whether or not Ms G had a valid 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Whilst they didn’t think Ms G had a 
valid claim, they said that Creation had provided poor service and ought to pay Ms G £150 
compensation for upset and worry caused. 
Creation agreed with our investigator’s recommendation. Ms G disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman’s decision on the case. She provided a screenshot of a text message from a 
retailer which she believed showed the device had been collected. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I’ll explain why. 
Ms G’s complaint relates to a running account credit facility provided by Creation. It’s a 
regulated agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint 
about.
Ms G might find that I’ve presented the events which led to this complaint in less detail than 
she presented them. I’ve done this simply because I don’t find it necessary to mirror that 
level of detail in explaining what a fair and reasonable outcome is. I can assure Ms G, 
however, that I’ve carefully considered everything I’ve been presented.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I’m required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
The Consumer Contract Regulations 2013 (CCR) are also relevant in this case. They say, in 
summary and with relevance to this case, that in order to cancel a contract the consumer 
would need to return the goods or hand them to the trader or someone authorised by the 
trader to receive them.
Like our investigator, I accept it seems that Ms G’s agreement with the retailer allowed her to 
return the goods. So, if it could be reasonably established that the goods were returned and 
Ms G’s account with Creation hadn’t been credited with the associated value of the 
purchase, then there’s grounds to say there’s been a breach of contract. 
I’ve carefully considered all of the evidence that’s been provided in determining whether the 
goods were likely returned. I acknowledge that Ms G has provided evidence so show that 
something was collected from her porch – for which she’s provided tracking details. And, I 
accept that a package made its way to the retailer. 
However, I also think it’s clear from Creation’s correspondence with the retailer, that the 
package it received didn’t contain the goods Ms G intended to return. And I think Creation 
made reasonable attempts to find out what could've happened. On balance, I think it’s most 
likely that the tracking details we’ve been provided relate to the package which was 
incorrectly collected and delivered to the retailer. 
I can’t say for sure what happened to the package which contained Ms G’s mobile device, 
but based on what I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that package was returned to the retailer. 
Additionally, I think that by leaving the goods in her porch, Ms G hasn’t met the requirements 
set out under the CCR to entitle her to cancel her contract.  So, I don’t think there’s been a 
breach of contract that Creation ought to be responsible for.
Given all of the above, I’m not persuaded that Creation has been responsible for a breach of 
its contract with Ms G, nor that it’s acted unfairly by asking her to repay the lending it 
provided. So, I don’t require anything of Creation in that respect. That being said, I accept 
that Ms G was caused some upset and worry by Creation’s handling of the matters, but I 
think the £150 compensation it’s agreed to pay is sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Ms G £150 compensation to the extent that it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman
