DRN-3446141
The complaint
Mr M complains about Creation Consumer Finance Limited’s response to his complaint 
about the issues that he had with e-signing a credit agreement.
What happened
Mr M wanted to use a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance to pay for a 
television that he was buying in October 2021. There was an issue which meant that he 
couldn’t sign the agreement using its e-sign facility so he asked for the agreement to be e-
mailed to him but that didn’t happen. He complained to Creation Consumer Finance, 
cancelled his order and bought a television from another retailer.
Creation Consumer Finance upheld his complaint about the issues with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It apologised and agreed to remove 
the search that it had made from Mr M’s credit file. Mr M wasn’t satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that his complaint should be upheld. Although she hadn’t 
received any information from Creation Consumer Finance, it had apologised to Mr M for its 
service and she thought that that was sufficient and she didn’t think that it needed to pay any 
financial redress.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that there’s 
no logic in his complaint being resolved in Creation Consumer Finance’s favour if it hasn’t 
co-operated with the investigation and that the wrong information it gave him, its bad service 
and having to go through another credit application with another retailer justifies 
compensation. He also says that the investigator hasn’t seen proof to confirm that the search 
has been removed from his credit file so she can’t guarantee that the search has been 
removed.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t provided any information to this service but I have seen a 
copy of the final response letter that it sent to Mr M. This service expects financial 
businesses to respond to requests for information and I don’t consider it to be acceptable 
that Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t responded to our investigator’s requests for 
information about Mr M’s complaint. But it’s failure to respond to those requests doesn’t 
mean that his complaint should be upheld.
Mr M had applied to Creation Consumer Finance for credit to pay for a television. It says that 
his application was accepted but he experienced issues using e-sign and that, if a customer 
can’t e-sign the agreement, it’s its process for a paper copy of the agreement to be sent for 
signing. I can understand Mr M’s frustration about his dealings with Creation Consumer 
Finance and he’s described the inconvenience that he was caused.
Creation Consumer Finance apologised to Mr M for the issues that he had with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It also agreed to remove the search 
that it had made from his credit file. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response to Mr M’s complaint. I consider that the customer service that Mr M has received 
wasn’t of the standard that he was reasonably entitled to expect but, other than that, I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance has acted 
incorrectly. Mr M clearly feels that he should receive compensation from Creation Consumer 
Finance for the inconvenience that he was caused but I’m not persuaded that any 
compensation is justified in these circumstances. 
Creation Consumer Finance said that it would ensure that the hard search was removed 
from Mr M’s credit file. Mr M hasn’t provided any evidence to show that the search hasn’t 
been removed from his credit file and I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to take any action about that search.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
