DRN-4260688
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation (“Creation”) 
handled a claim she made in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased a sofa, through a company I’ll refer to as “S”, through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation in August 2021. The cost of the sofa was £4,055.99. The delivery 
of the sofa cost an additional £69 and Mrs M purchased a leather care kit for £50. Mrs M 
also purchased a premium leather warranty and a recliner care package totalling £340.    
Mrs M paid a deposit of £100. So under her agreement with Creation, she was required to 
make 48 monthly payments of £91.97. The sofa was delivered to Mrs M in November 2021.
In August 2022, Mrs M says she complained to S and told them she was unhappy with the 
quality of the sofa. She says this was after she noticed in around July 2022 the sofa was 
sagging in some places and she found bolts on the floor whilst cleaning it. In October 2022, 
S arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. Mrs M says the technician fitted the bolts 
back to the sofa and puffed up the cushions. In December 2022, Mrs M referred her 
complaint to Creation.
Creation issued its response to Mrs M’s complaint in January 2023. However, it confirmed 
that the technician said the sofa had no defects and was fit for purpose and so, it rejected 
Mrs M’s claim.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said the sofa wasn’t used frequently as both her and her husband worked five days a 
week. She said the matter was affecting her mental health as she was paying a lot of money 
for a sofa that was of poor quality. She said to put things right, she wanted S to collect the 
sofa and allow her to choose another one. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly. She 
said the issue with the loose bolts had been rectified. She also said she hadn’t seen any 
evidence to suggest there was a manufacturing defect with the sofa. And so, she concluded 
that the sofa was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Mrs M disagreed. She said the sofa was a costly purchase and she was paying for 
something which was of poor quality. She said bolts were falling off and she was keeping it 
covered in throws to hide the cushions sagging. 
As Mrs M remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I’ve read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. I’ve concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on 
any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about it – but 
because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
To make it clear, this complaint is about Creation, as it is Mrs M’s finance provider. It’s not 
about S, who is not the lender.
What I need to decide in this case is whether I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation 
to decline Mrs M’s claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s75”).
Under s75, Creation is jointly liable for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations made 
by the supplier of goods or services – which is S in this case. 
In order for there to be a valid claim under s75, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(‘DCS’) agreement in place. Mrs M made the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement 
which was provided by Creation and signed by Mrs M. I can see the invoice from S is in   
Mrs M’s name. So, I’m satisfied a valid DCS agreement exists here.
I’ve then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid s75 claim. Mrs M needed to have 
purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100, but not more than £30,000. I can see 
from the invoice that the amount is within the financial limits. So, it follows that I’m satisfied 
the financial limits have been met for a valid claim. 
Overall, I’m satisfied Mrs M has a like claim against Creation. What I now need to consider is 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation that took place. 
When considering this, it’s important to note that The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) 
implies a term into the contract that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect. So the sofa’s condition at the 
point of supply, should meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
considering factors such as the description and price of the goods. 
The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Mrs M purchased a brand new sofa for which she agreed to pay a total of £4,055.99. 
Bearing this in mind, I don’t think a reasonable person would expect the sofa to have any 
problems for a considerable amount of time and I think they would have high expectations 
for the quality of the sofa. If the quality of the sofa was unsatisfactory, I would consider this 
to be a breach of contract.
Mrs M complained about loose bolts and said the sofa was sagging. 
I’ve seen a copy of the report by the technician which was carried out in October 2022. The 
report confirmed that two bolts had come loose from the mechanism frame as they had not 
been fitted correctly. The technician fitted the bolts back to the frame and said this resolved 
the issue. He also said the recliner mechanisms were secure and working correctly. The 
technician provided photographs to show the repair work being carried out and completed 
and provided general photographs of the sofa. 
Both Mrs M and the technician agree that two bolts were loose from the sofa. However, the 
technician has shown these loose bolts were reattached to the sofa. I don’t think the sofa 
should have been provided with two loose bolts, but I’m satisfied this issue was repaired by 
the technician and so, any potential breach of contract has been corrected. Mrs M has said 
since then bolts are falling off the sofa again, but she hasn’t provided any supporting 
information to demonstrate this.  
With regards to the sagging of the sofa, Mrs M has provided two photographs of the front 
lower sections of the sofa. Both photographs show some sagging to the front cushions which 
appear to show recent use. The technician’s photographs are of the whole sofa and don’t 
show the sagging to the front cushions shown in Mrs M’s photographs. Mrs M’s testimony 
confirms that the technician puffed up the cushions during his visit. This may explain why the 
sofa doesn’t show any sagging and looks like it has normal wear in the technician’s 
photographs. On balance, I’m not satisfied the supporting information provided demonstrates 
that the sofa has an issue beyond normal wear and tear in regards to the sagging of the 
cushions. 
In light of this, I think the sofa supplied to Mrs M by S is of satisfactory quality. And so, I don’t 
think there has been a breach of contract. Nor have I seen anything to suggest the sofa was 
misrepresented. It follows all of this that I don’t think Creation unfairly declined Mrs M’s 
complaint under s75.
My final decision
I don’t uphold Mrs M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman
