DRN-4089460
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr S has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr S throughout.
What happened
On 16 August 2013, Mr S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr S complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, 
and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the 
sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
When he received no response from Creation, Mr S brought his complaint to this service 
on 18 October 2021. Creation issued a final response letter dated 22 October 2021. 
Creation considered Mr S had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of 
action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the 
complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S asked us to review his complaint. 
An investigator considered Mr S’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation. 
On 6 March 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr S keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Mr S had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr S accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 27 March 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from 
it. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr S’s s.75 claim 
on 22 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr S brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 October 2021. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 18 October 2021, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 16 August 2013. Mr S brought his s.75 claim to 
Creation on 25 June 2021 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement 
with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr S has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr S has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr S to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr S on 16 August 2013 and by Creation on 19 August 
2013, sets out Mr S’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of 
that. Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar 
panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr S’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr S to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr S would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In June 2014, and later in December 2014, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and 
accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. The findings were 
deemed to be serious enough that the company’s membership of the RECC was 
terminated. 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC were looking at, the 
findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr S’s 
complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr S said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr S left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £132, payable for 10 years. And I have considered that Mr S told us 
that at that time he had a big mortgage and a young family. Given his lack of prior interest 
and the financial burden he took on, I find Mr S’s account of what he was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances 
he’s said he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr S’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,587 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr S’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr S’s testimony is that it didn’t.
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr S’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr S’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr S.
Considering Mr S’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr S a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr S’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr S was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr S went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr S’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr S a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr S’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr S received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr S received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr S may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
S has sold the house and does not have access to much documentation from before this. 
Creation has explained Mr S settled the loan agreement in November 2021.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr S made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr S’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr S should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr S paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr S paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mr S C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr S
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr S’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
