 
 
DRN-5056022 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr J has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
 
Mr J has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to Mr 
J throughout.  
 
What happened 
In January 2014 Mr J entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,565 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £15,144.41 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £125.39.  
 
In May 2021, Mr J sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said E told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-funding. He 
said E told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy and his 
energy bills would go down.  
 
Mr J said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
 
Mr J had already referred his complaint to this service earlier in October 2021. Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, asked us to consider his complaint.  
 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought E had likely told Mr J the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. They didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they thought E 
had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr J 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mr J pays no more than that, and he keeps 
the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
 
Mr J accepted the view, but Creation didn’t respond. As things weren’t resolved, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 17 September 2024, a 
section of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional 
decision, I set out the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr J’s complaint. I set out 
an extract below: 
 
 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
 
Creation has argued on other cases that the event complained of when the matter is brought 
to our service occurred as and when the supplier caused the alleged s.75 liability to arise in 
the first place. I disagree: the lender’s s.75 liability in damages doesn’t arise as a result of 
any act or omission of the lender in performing a regulated activity – it is simply a claim given 
by statute to the borrower against the lender. And it arises from the acts or omissions of a 
third party, the supplier. Only when and if that claim is presented by the borrower to the 
lender must the lender do anything about it, which is to honour its statutory liability by paying 
the claim if it is a valid one. Until then, the lender’s acts and omissions are simply to have 
lent money to the borrower at the borrower’s request, and that is not the matter complained 
about.  
  
So, when a borrower brings a complaint to our service alleging that they were due money 
under s.75 which the lender has refused to pay, the “event complained of” in such 
circumstances isn’t the supplier’s conduct; it is the lender’s refusal to honour its alleged 
statutory liability when the borrower made the claim.  
 
In this case, Creation rolled up its consideration of Mr J’s claim into a letter that both 
explained why it would not be paying the claim and treated Mr J as having brought a 
complaint which he was entitled to refer to our service.  So, its refusal to accept and pay the 
s.75 claim was contained in a final response letter of 22 October 2021, in which it told Mr J 
he could refer his complaint to our service within 6 months.  
 
In those circumstances, because Creation’s letter dated 22 October 2021 rejected Mr J’s 
claim under s.75 (which Mr J says is valid) it constituted “the event complained of”. It also set 
out Creation’s response to any complaint that flowed from this and invited Mr J to refer that 
complaint to our service if he was dissatisfied with the outcome. Creation could have 
separated those stages, waited for Mr J to complain that the s.75 claim had not been 
accepted and honoured, and only then issued its final response letter. Instead, it followed the 
same practice that many other lenders adopt by allowing Mr J to refer the matter directly to 
the ombudsman service, by way of treating it as a complaint.  
 
Creation has argued previously that Mr J didn’t complain to it about the manner in which it 
dealt with his s.75 claim, and that it has never responded to such a complaint. But that 
ignores the fact that it was Creation’s choice to roll the answer to the s.75 claim into a final 
response letter in the way that I’ve described.  That was a reasonable and pragmatic way of 
proceeding, because the issues between the parties on this part of Mr J’s complaint were 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Creation to reject Mr J’s s.75 claim, as they remain to 
this day.  
 
 
 
Creation also refers to DISP 2.8.1R(1) which broadly provides a complaint can only be 
considered if the respondent has sent the complainant its final response (or summary 
resolution communication). However, Creation did send Mr J a final response letter on 22 
October 2021. After the complaint was referred by Mr J to the ombudsman service on 19 
October 2021, we wrote to Creation providing details of the complaint as submitted to the 
ombudsman service including details of Mr J’s complaint about the s.75 claim. 
 
If Creation’s position had been that it denied it received any such complaint, it could have 
raised this with the ombudsman service at the time, but it did not. Instead, it provided 
information concerning its position on the complaint. It was apparent from this 
correspondence that, in relation to s.75, Mr J’s complaint was that Creation had a liability to 
him which it was declining to pay.   
 
So, even if no final response had been issued in respect of the complaint about s.75, in 
accordance with DISP 2.8.1R(2) Creation has had well over eight weeks to respond to the 
complaint and our service is entitled to deal with it. 
 
There has been no conflation with the six-month time limit under DISP 2.8.2R(1) in this 
regard. That Creation refused to accept the s.75 claim within a final response letter does not 
give rise to any difficulties calculating when time begins to run under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a).  
 
Creation has also argued previously that the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into 
account the Limitation Act 1980 (“the LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 
2.8.2R saying when a complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. 
However, I do consider that the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr J’s 
complaint about its rejection of the s.75 claim. 
 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over the 
complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of the 
complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mr J is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair 
relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the credit relationship 
ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. Rather, it 
sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors as unfair. Under 
s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, because of the terms of the 
credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor exercised or enforced their 
rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done by the supplier on the 
creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
 
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having 
regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing 
relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the 
date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has recently been approved by the 
Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its relationship with 
the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In particular, the creditor should 
take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it to take in the interest of fairness to 
reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that the relationship can no longer be regarded 
as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. Whether that has, or has not, been done by the 
creditor is a consideration in whether such an unfair relationship was in existence for the 
purposes of s.140A when the relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t just a 
question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The question is 
whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still on foot, whether it is still 
unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires paying regard to the whole 
relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that point, including the extent to which the 
creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mr J’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the matters which made its 
relationship with Mr J unfair and for taking steps to remove the source of that unfairness or 
mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in his 
complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself and Creation, Mr J 
therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he referred his complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr J’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr J says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr J says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr J to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
 
But the loan agreement does not mention the income or savings that may be generated. 
So, there was no way from these documents for Mr J to compare his total costs against 
the financial benefits he was allegedly being promised from those documents. So, Mr J 
would have looked to E’s representative to help him understand how much the panels 
would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system in 
order for him to make a decision. 
 
But whilst the loan agreement doesn’t speak to that, the contract document does have 
something to say. Mr J has provided a copy of some pages from the contract document 
provided to him by E in 2014. In a section called ‘INCOME AND SAVINGS’, it says the Total 
Annual Savings could be £1,062.16, the Return on Investment could be 10.99%, the ‘Pay 
Back Year’ is year 6 and the 20 years benefits could be £48,743.00. 
 
The first year’s loan repayments would be about £1,500. This could be argued to show 
that Mr J should have been aware that the returns from the solar panel system would not 
cover the cost of the loan. But I note that it is not clear to me that these figures do signify 
that so clearly. I say that because I must consider all of the submissions made to me. In 
this case the same document suggests a return of investment that exceeds the interest 
rate and the APR on the loan Mr J was taking out. It states that the 20-year benefits will 
outstrip the full cost of the loan significantly and that ‘Pay Back Year’ is year 6.  
 
I would need more information from E to understand how these figures were presented to 
Mr J at the time of the sale. And, in this case, I have some such evidence to consider. I 
note that a later page in that same document compares the annual savings in year one 
against a projected annual savings in year 20. That has assumed a rate of inflation at 
work in the benefits that lifted the annual savings to over £4,500 a year.  
 
So, it seems to me that the documentary evidence suggests that the year one costs 
against the benefits would have been explained to Mr J in the context of an anticipated 
increasing savings amount year on year.  
 
So, whilst this document suggests the costs of the loan could outweigh the financial 
benefits in year one, it seems that Mr J was receiving assurances from E’s representative 
that the solar panels would, pay for themselves in the life of the loan. This documentary 
evidence does not, in my opinion, undermine Mr J’s testimony that he was told the solar 
panel system would be self-funding over the lifetime of the loan.  
 
 
 
At best the weight of evidence suggests that E were mixing their messages. And it was 
important that they explained themselves clearly and fairly. I consider that the above 
suggests they failed to do so. I consider that E failed to make it clear to Mr J that the loan 
would not be self-funding.  
 
I must consider all the submissions made to me in a case. Having considered all of the 
submissions made to me in this case, including all of the promotional material provided 
into account, it seems that Mr J was supposed to understand that the solar panels would 
most likely be self-funding. And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mr 
J dealt with would’ve used similar lines to those E produced in its promotional literature at 
the time of the sale. So, this evidence supports Mr J’s testimony that E’s representative 
told him the scheme would be self-funding.  
 
So, having considered Mr J’s account about what happened when he spoke to E, 
specifically that the cost of the system would be fully paid for by the FIT payments and 
electricity savings he would receive, I find this evidence credible and persuasive.  
 
Mr J said he had no interest in purchasing a solar panel system before E contacted him. Mr 
J has said he only agreed to the purchase because E told him the system would pay for 
itself. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mr J 
would have agreed to pay for the system if his monthly outgoings would increase 
significantly. In saying that I have noted that Mr J told us he had an income of £24,000 a 
year, a significant mortgage debt and three financial dependants.  
 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £1,500 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest he’s achieved anywhere near this 
benefit. I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of 
the system weren’t true.  
 
I think E’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr J’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think E’s 
representative would have known that Mr J’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him. 
 
Considering Mr J’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely E gave Mr J a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr J’s account of what he was told by E to be credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had E not given the reassurances he said he received.  
 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr J expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr J went into the transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr J’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr J in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
 
 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr J 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr J and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
J a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
E’s assurances. That is, that Mr J’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Creation has previously argued that it considers our approach to redress should be in 
accordance with the Court’s decision in Hodgson. I have considered this judgment, but this 
doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson 
concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair 
redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a contractual promise 
regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about 
that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should be based on Mr 
J’s expectation of what he would receive. I consider Mr J has lost out, and has suffered 
unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to it 
exceed the benefits from the solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results 
in fair compensation for Mr J. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr J received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr J received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr J 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr J some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
Finally, I note Mr J also mentioned claiming damages through s.75. Given my above 
conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of Mr J’s s.75 
complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.   
 
My provisional decision 
 
 
 
I have been provided with no evidence that the loan did not run to term. On that basis, and 
for the reasons I have explained, I’m intending to uphold Mr J’s complaint and direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr J has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the end of the loan term – A 
• 
Use Mr J’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr J should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr J 
• 
Pay Mr J an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr J has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills 
and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation 
to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 1 October 2024. Mr J has accepted my provisional findings. 
Creation has not acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or 
asked for an extension to do so.  
 
I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have made a further submission had they 
wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr J’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr J’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above  
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr J’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation 
as detailed above. 
 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 
