 
 
DRN-5203546 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr W complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) responded to 
claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged unfair 
relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the “CCA”).  
Mr W’s claims were in relation to solar panels that he had bought and were paid for through 
a loan with Creation. Mr W is represented in his complaint by a third party but for ease I have 
referred to all submissions from Mr W and the third party as if made by Mr W. 
What happened 
In 2015 Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The loan was for a 
solar panel system which cost £10,150. The loan was to be repaid by regular instalments of 
£131.21 over the 120-month term. Although the amount borrowed was £10,150, with interest 
and charges the total amount repayable under the loan was £15,745.49.  
Mr W complains that the solar panel system was missold as he was told the solar panels 
would pay for themselves. More specifically, that the electricity savings from the system and 
the income generated from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments would more than cover the cost 
of the loan repayments.  
Creation responded to Mr W’s claim and explained why in its view that Mr W’s claims had 
been submitted too late. Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service, 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Mr W’s claim had not 
been submitted too late and when looking at the evidence provided, that Mr W was misled 
about the potential benefits of the solar panel system. They set out what they considered to 
be fair redress to put things right.  
Mr W accepted the investigator’s conclusions but as we received no response from Creatin 
about this complaint, it has been passed to me so that a final decision can be issued as the 
last stage in our process. 
After initially considering the complaint, I asked the investigator to put some further 
questions to Mr W. Mr W responded to those questions and confirmed that he no longer 
lives at the property where the solar panels were installed. After a change of circumstances, 
the house was sold, with the solar panels and any associated benefits of the panels, 
remaining at the property. Mr W has continued to make the loan repayments to Creation, 
which is due to end shortly.  
I issued a provisional decision on 22 November 2024 and in that decision, I set out the 
following:  
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
 
 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Mr W has complained about the misrepresentations made by the solar panels supplier have 
created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A Consumer Credit Act. Mr W is able to 
make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation per s.140A. 
The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, for 
so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship with him. 
This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc [2023] UKSC 34. S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same 
way as s.75. Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and 
debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor 
exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done 
by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or 
any related agreement.  
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. The 
High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the 
determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended.  
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a 
creditor should conduct its relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective 
measures. In particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to 
expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66].  
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether such 
an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the relationship 
ended. In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The 
question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, 
whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. 
That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to 
that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship. In Mr W’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the 
matters which made its relationship with Mr W unfair and for taking steps to remove the 
source of that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer 
unfair. By relying in his complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself 
and Creation, Mr W therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Therefore, taking into account DISP 
2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I am otherwise satisfied the 
complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to consider and it’s not necessary to 
consider whether Mr W’s complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of the 
alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the solar panels 
supplier can be considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. In 
Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement.  
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming 
the solar panels supplier to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Taking 
this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me to 
consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by the solar panels supplier for which Creation was responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr W says he was told that the solar panels system would effectively pay for itself within the 
loan term. So I’ve taken account of what Mr W says he was told at the time of arranging the 
solar panel system. I’ve also reviewed the limited documentation that has been presented to 
me in this case.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr W to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the loan agreement. Apart from the loan agreement referring to SOLAR PV under 
the goods section, there is no reference to any of the estimated benefits of the solar panel 
system.  
Mr W says he was told the cost of the loan would be covered by the savings and amounts 
generated by the solar panels system. It is clear from what Mr W has said that this was a key 
factor in his decision to buy the solar panels system. I have seen nothing that indicates Mr W 
had a particular interest in purchasing a solar panels system before he met with the supplier. 
Mr W has been consistent throughout and I find what he says about the benefits of the 
system plausible.  
It would in my view be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mr W would have 
agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly outgoings would increase significantly by 
the amount he was required to pay through the loan repayments. 
I’m required to decide the case quickly and with minimum formality and I need to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As I have already set out above, where 
the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. On balance, I find Mr W’s 
account to be plausible and convincing. For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need 
to produce a combined savings of around £1,574 per year.  
Having considered the estimated production amounts on the MCS certificate and compared 
those to the benefits and savings they would likely produce, I’ve not seen anything to 
suggest Mr W would achieve the benefits required to make the system self-funding within 
 
 
the ten year loan term. Based on what I’ve tried to calculate, taking into account the likely 
generation and export FIT, it seems like it would take significantly longer than the loan term 
to be self-funding.  
I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of the 
system weren’t true and misleading. I think the salesperson of the solar panels system ought 
to have known this and made it clear to Mr W that the solar panels system wouldn’t have 
produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement within 
the term.  
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely the supplier of the solar panels 
system gave Mr W a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar 
panels system. I consider this misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the 
transaction for the system, namely the benefits which Mr W was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that the assurances in this regard likely 
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panels system would have the capacity to 
fund the loan repayments. But even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless 
represented the basis upon which Mr W went into the transaction. Either way, on balance, I 
think the solar panels system supplier’s assurances were misleading and false, undermining 
the purpose of the transaction from Mr W’s point of view. 
Fair compensation  
As I’ve found that Mr W was misled into entering into the solar panels system and taking out 
the loan, I will now consider what is required as fair compensation to Mr W. In all the 
circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the unfairness of Mr 
W and Creation’s relationship arising out of the solar panels supplier’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panels system.  
Within a few years of installing the solar panels, Mr W’s circumstances changed and this 
resulted in him moving out of the property and the property being sold. I’ve not seen 
anything to indicate this was anticipated at the time the solar panels were installed and from 
what Mr W has said, it does appear that this was not foreseen or expected at the time the 
solar panels were installed in 2015.  
By moving out and selling the property, Mr W would cease to receive any benefit from the 
solar panels system or associated FIT payments. Mr W was however still required to repay 
the loan payments that were used to fund the cost of the panels. It would be reasonable in 
my view for any redress calculation to factor in that Mr W moved out of the property in 
August 2019 and stopped receiving the benefit of the solar panels at that time.  
Creation should repay Mr W a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably 
have expected as a result of the solar panels supplier’s assurances, up to the point in 
August 2019 when the property was sold. That is, that Mr W’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits he received up to August 2019.  
Although Creation hasn’t specifically argued it in this case, I have had regard to court’s 
decision in Hodgson. I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade 
me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation.  
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I 
am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should 
be based on Mr W’s expectation of what he would receive, until the house was sold. 
 
 
I consider Mr W has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to 
the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels. 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr W.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the credit agreement based 
on the known and/or assumed savings and income Mr W received from the solar panels 
system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that, up to August 2019. 
To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr W received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings, up to August 2019 when the property was 
sold.  
Mr W will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received and, 
electricity bills from when he lived at the property to Creation.  
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I’m intending to uphold this complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:  
• Calculate the total payments Mr W has made towards the solar panel system, up until 
August 2019 – A  
• Use Mr W’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received from the start 
date of the loan, up until August 2019 – B  
• Use B to recalculate what Mr W should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement* – C  
• Reimburse C to Mr W  
*If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Mr W responded to say that he accepted my provisional findings. No response was received 
from Creation. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision and I have received no response from Creation. 
In the absence of any further submissions or arguments from the parties, I have come to the 
same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision, for the same reasons.  
I am satisfied that Mr W’s complaint should be upheld, again for the same reasons set out in 
 
 
my provisional decision of 22 November 2024 and above.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr W’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct Creation to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2025. 
  
 
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 
