DRN-2318684
The complaint
Mr O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) won’t compensate him for 
a used car which he bought using finance provided by Creation, and which he says was 
faulty. He brings his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
In July 2016, Mr O bought a used car from a dealer whom I’ll call “D”. The car was then 
some five and a half years old and had a recorded mileage of 60,520 miles. The cash price 
of the car was £5,900. Mr O was allowed a part exchange allowance of £500 by D.
The balance owed to D was provided by a loan of £5,400 from Creation to whom he was 
introduced through a broker by D. Mr O agreed to repay the loan and finance charges by 60 
monthly instalments of £113.03 each.
The car passed an MOT at the time of sale. About a month after delivery, and having 
travelled some 1,500 miles, Mr O returned the car to D with a water cooling system fault, 
which D repaired at its cost. Two years later, and having travelled a further 37,000 miles, the 
car suffered a different water cooling system fault. D repaired this, but at Mr O’s cost.
In May 2019, the car broke down. By this time the recorded mileage was 104,702 miles.    
Mr O was told by the garage which inspected it that the engine had seized and would need 
to be replaced. Mr O was told the oil pump wasn’t working properly.
Mr O said that the oil warning light had come on periodically during his ownership, including 
soon after delivery, but when he checked the sump it was full of oil. D had put this down to 
faulty warning lights when he raised it. Because of this history, Mr O asked D if it would 
replace the engine. D didn’t accept the car was faulty when sold. It offered to fit a 
replacement engine at cost, but wouldn’t assist further.
Mr O complained to Creation under section 75. Because Mr O had been introduced to 
Creation for the finance through D, there were circumstances in which Creation could be 
equally responsible with D for a misrepresentation or breach of contract in relation to the 
sale of the car.
However, in this case Creation said there was insufficient evidence in the form of a 
diagnostic report to confirm the engine had failed because of a fault present at the point of 
sale in 2016, rather than because of later wear and tear, and wouldn’t accept Mr O’s claim. 
Mr O complained to us about Creation’s refusal to accept his Section 75 claim.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there was an implied term that goods supplied to a consumer 
such as Mr O would be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
However, the car was then five and a half years old and had travelled 60,520 miles. So a 
lower standard was expected than for a new car. Nearly three years passed, and the car 
covered a further 34,000 miles, before it broke down. The investigator didn’t think Mr O 
would have been able to drive this distance if the car was faulty when supplied. The car had 
also passed MOTs at the time of sale and since then.
Mr O had mentioned the issue with the oil light coming on intermittently, and the repairs to 
the water cooling system. But there was no indication of why the engine had seized, or that 
this was connected in any way to the earlier issues. 
The investigator agreed it was disappointing that the car should suffer a major issue before 
the finance agreement had been repaid. But he couldn’t say the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied, or that it would be fair to ask Creation to do anything more.
Mr O responded to say, in summary, that:

if a car was financed on a five year agreement, he thought it should last for the term 
of the loan;

he thought the engine should have lasted at least 120,000 miles; and

the previous owner had serviced the car every year, and so had he.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr O might have expected that his car would last for the length of his 
finance agreement without suffering a major breakdown. But the longer a car continues to be 
used, the greater likelihood there is of something going wrong. There is no certainty with 
older cars of how long they will last without suffering a serious fault.
In this case there is no mechanical evidence to say why the engine seized. And there is 
nothing to say the previous issues Mr O encountered had anything to do with the ultimate 
breakdown. Nearly three years passed after delivery, and Mr O covered 34,000 miles, before 
the car broke down.
So there isn’t sufficient evidence for me to say the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when 
supplied so that D was in breach of its sale contract with Mr O.
For Creation to be liable to Mr O under Section 75 it’s necessary for Mr O to establish a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by D in relation to the sale of the car. As I’m not 
satisfied that either of these was present, it follows that I can’t say that Creation has any 
liability to Mr O in respect of the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman
