DRN-3289942
The complaint
Ms F has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She isn’t happy about the 
way it communicated with her about her loan agreement and payments. 
What happened
Ms F had a fixed loan agreement with Creation for some living room furniture. The loan was 
to be paid off over a 24-month period by direct debit. Unfortunately, Ms F missed a payment 
in August 2020. 
But for reasons that remain unclear Creation contacted her sister about the missing payment 
as opposed to Ms F. When Ms F contacted Creation about this and raised the issue it still 
went on to write out to Ms F’s sister. So Ms F complained to Creation and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms F and upheld her complaint. This was because he 
was satisfied that Creation’s actions caused Ms F a fair degree of stress and inconvenience 
and so he thought it should pay Ms F £125 in compensation.
As Creation didn’t respond the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. As Creation hasn’t responded to the 
investigator or provided an explanation as to how and why Ms F’s sister was communicated 
with about her finance agreement I don’t propose to go into detail. I can’t be sure what it 
thinks about paying Ms F £125 compensation for its error here, but I think this feels fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
I say this as it isn’t disputed that Creation called Ms F’s sister about the missed payment and 
I’m sure Ms F was embarrassed about this. It compounded its error by writing out to Ms F’s 
sister about her finance agreement after she had told them about the mistake. And it 
continued to communicate with Ms F’s sister when she had agreed to make the missed 
payment which must have been annoying and frustrating for Ms F.
I understand the data protection issues involved here have been advanced separately. So, I 
will simply stick to the poor service and embarrassment Creation caused Ms F. Ms F has 
accepted the investigator’s suggestion that she should be paid £125 compensation and so I 
see no reason to interfere with that. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Ms F £125 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman
