DRN-2981945
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs P fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs P from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs P is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs P by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs P’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs P in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs P have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs P and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs P and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs P accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs P has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs P has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs P first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs P’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman
