DRN-1464640
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd provided inaccurate information about 
him to credit reference agencies.   
What happened
Mr M had a number of debts with Creation relating to five credit cards and two loans.
He entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA) in May 2013. Which meant his 
debts should be recorded as satisfied and the relevant credit reference records removed in 
May 2019, after six years.
He found the credit reference records relating to his debts with Creation were recorded as 
settled in June 2019. This was inaccurate - and would have caused the records to be 
retained for a further six years.
Mr M raised this with Creation. They told him they'd looked into it, decided the records 
should be deleted as Mr M wished, and requested the credit reference agencies (CRAs) do 
that. They said they hadn't known about the IVA until Mr M contacted them.
Mr M later checked his credit reference record and found that one of the CRAs still has a 
record on his credit reference file relating to one of his loans.
Mr M complained to Creation. They said they've done everything they can to request 
deletion of the record. And they no longer hold any information about these debts 
themselves. 
Mr M wasn't happy with this and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't 
think Creation had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute about the basic facts in this case. Mr M had debts owed to Creation. 
Information about those debts was legitimately on his credit file until 2019. And everyone 
agrees that information should have been deleted in May 2019.
There's also no dispute some of the information is still there on one of the CRAs files. And it 
shouldn't be.
I can understand Mr M's frustration and annoyance about this issue. And, based on the 
information we have at present, I'm in no doubt the matter should be put right and the 
information deleted.
But the question for me in making this decision is whether Creation specifically have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr M. Mr M's complaint is about Creation.
We've got screenshots from Creation which show they did request the deletion of the 
information which is currently still sitting on Mr M's credit file with one of the CRAs. This 
information relates to one of the loans Mr M took out with Creation.
Creation can't explain why the information hasn't disappeared. Neither can I. But I'm 
satisfied Creation have done what they needed to do and requested the information be 
removed.
The CRA in question has guidance on their website for customers who find themselves in 
this kind of position. It says they should raise a dispute with the CRA, who will then try to 
resolve the matter with the business which originally supplied the information.
We've advised Mr M to do this. If the CRA were then clearly told by Creation that the 
information shouldn't be retained - and if Creation were the source of that information for the 
CRA, which there's no reason to doubt at present - then the CRA would presumably delete 
the information from Mr M's credit file.
So, there is a way forward for Mr M to resolve this issue. And I can't conclude at present that 
Creation have done anything wrong. They seem to have done their best to request the 
information be deleted as soon as Mr M made them aware of his 2013 IVA.        
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
