DRN-1625482
The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t send him a statement to tell him 
when his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest free period was ending.
What happened
Mr A bought a number of items in 2018 on a BNPL interest free period. Before the end of the 
interest free period Creation wrote to Mr A to remind him when the period was ending, and 
Mr A settled the balance for those items in full before the end of the BNPL period.
In June 2018 Mr A signed up to the electronic portal to manage his account and all future 
statements were sent via email. Mr A says he didn’t get any letters or emails about the end 
of the BNPL period and only noticed when the direct debit increased dramatically. Mr A says 
it isn’t fair that he wasn’t notified about the end of the BNPL and that the full amount of 
interest has been charged even though he paid the balance very quickly after finding out.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and he didn’t think Creation had done anything 
wrong. He thought that the electronic statements made it clear when the payments were due 
and what the interest would be if Mr A didn’t settle in time.
Mr A didn’t agree and replied to say in summary that he never received any emails about the 
end of the period. He thought that the interest charged was excessive even though he had 
paid it off after a short period of time and letters were sent for earlier items which were also 
on the online portal.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Mr A is unhappy, especially since he settled his previous finance within 
the BNPL period and wasn’t changed any interest. I can also understand why he was 
expecting a letter in the post as this was his experience for the earlier items.
Creation has provided copies of its records which confirm that an email was sent to Mr A to 
notify him that a statement was available. Mr A says he hasn’t received these emails, but I 
can’t say they weren’t sent. Creation say that Mr A signed up to the portal with an email 
address which is used for logging in. If this email address is incorrect and the emails haven’t 
reached Mr A I can’t say it is Creation’s fault as it was Mr A who would have entered it. 
After Mr A signed up to manage his account online Creation say it sent emails to notify Mr A 
that a new statement was ready in the online portal. It would therefore be Mr A’s 
responsibility to sign in and look at the statements. Those statements set out that the BNPL 
period was ending and the date payment needed to be made to avoid interest.
As I said at the outset, I understand why Mr A was expecting a letter in the post, especially 
since he says he was signed up to the portal when the letters were sent for the previous 
items. But I can’t say Creation has made an error by not sending a letter. The statements 
were notified to Mr A and were accessible to him with all of the information required.
I can understand why Mr A is frustrated that he has missed out on the interest free period as 
I am sure his intention was to pay before the end of the BNPL period. But if the payment is 
made outside that period the statement explains that interest is charged for the whole of the 
period and added to the balance. I can understand why Mr A says it is excessive and unfair 
but according to the terms of the BNPL promotion I can’t say Creation has wrongly charged 
him. Mr A was aware of the rate of interest that would be charged if he didn’t settle the 
balance and so I can’t say it is excessive or wasn’t notified to him.
For these reasons I can’t ask Creation to do anything more in relation to Mr A’s complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
6 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
