DRN-3184697
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd was mis-sold and was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. He paid a deposit of £2,900 and the agreement was for £3,729 over 36 months; 
with 35 monthly repayments of £123.56 and a final payment of £133.56. At the time the car 
was around seven years old and had done 49,523 miles.
Mr A said he started to have problems with the car within a few weeks of taking possession 
of it – he discovered the rear bumper was held on by cable ties, the air-conditioning wasn’t 
working, and the engine kept cutting out and going into limp mode.
The car went back to different branches of the supplying dealership group for repair, on a 
number of occasions between March and October 2020. And, while the bumper and air-
conditioning were fixed, the engine problem remained. The dealership accepted that the car 
wasn’t of a satisfactory quality when supplied, and they gave Mr A three options:
1.
part-exchange the car for another one;
2.
sell the car back at the sale price, less a deduction for mileage; or
3.
continue to try and have the car repaired.
Mr A wasn’t happy with these options, and he wanted to reject the car, and be compensated 
for what’d happened. So, he complained to Creation. Creation upheld his complaint, but 
thought the options offered by the dealership were reasonable. And they didn’t offer anything 
more to resolve the complaint. Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, as all parties agreed the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, Creation should do something to put things right. And, because of what’d 
happened, she thought it was reasonable for Mr A to be able to reject the car.
While Mr A had said he’d only used the car for emergencies since October 2020, the 
investigator said this wasn’t supported by the evidence she seen. And she thought Mr A 
should pay for the use of the car. But she said Creation should refund him 20% of the 
payments he’d made, plus statutory interest, to reflect the impaired usage he’d had.
The investigator also said that Creation should refund the Mr A’s deposit, plus interest, pay 
£80 to have the private numberplate removed, and compensate Mr A £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience he’d been caused.
Mr A agreed with the investigator, but Creation didn’t respond. So, the matter was passed to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
While this case was waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman, Mr A purchased a new 
vehicle, and declared this car to be off the road. And he provided evidence showing the car 
has been off the road since 28 November 2021. 
Because of what’d happened, the investigator issued a second view. In this she said that, in 
addition to what she’d already recommended, Creation should also refund 100% of the 
payments Mr A had paid after 28 November 2021, plus interest. Mr A accepted this, and 
Creation said they wanted to go back to the dealership ‘to see of they were still on board’. 
Creation then arranged for the car to be collected on 11 March 2022 but made no further 
comments. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, 
Creation are responsible. What’s satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr A to show it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this 
right.
As all parties have agreed that the car wasn’t of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr A, I won’t address this within my decision. Instead, my decision will concentrate on what 
Creation need to do to put things right.
Putting things right
It’s clear from the evidence that Creation and the dealership have had multiple attempts at 
fixing the engine fault with the car. And these attempts were all unsuccessful. And, by 
collecting the car in March 2022, Creation have allowed Mr A to reject the car. Which I think 
is reasonable in the circumstances. And both his deposit, and the cost of removing his 
private numberplate from the car, should be refunded to him as part of the rejection.
Mr A had use of the car between January 2020 and November 2021, and I think it’s fair that 
he pays for this usage. However, during this period, the car had an intermittent fault which 
meant the engine kept going into limp mode. So, it’s fair to say that Mr A’s usage of the car 
during this period was impaired. And I’m in agreement that Mr A should be refunded some of 
his payments to reflect this impairment.
Mr A has provided evidence that the car has been off the road since 28 November 2021, but 
he’s still been making payments to Creation. As he hasn’t had use of the car since this date, 
all the payments he’s made after this point should also be refunded to him.
Finally, Mr A has had to take the car multiple times to four different dealerships, most of 
them a sizeable distance from his home. And, when he’s had the car, the intermittent fault 
has meant he’s had to borrow transport from family and friends to attend things such as 
hospital appointments, due to the car breaking down. Given this, I’m satisfied that Mr A has 
suffered a great deal of trouble and inconvenience as a result of the car that was supplied to 
him, and I think Creation should compensate him for this.
So, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

refund the £2.900 deposit Mr A paid;

refund 20% of all payments Mr A made between the start of the agreement and 28 
November 2021;

refund all the payments Mr A has made on or after 28 November 2021;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr A made 
the payments to the date of the refund †;

remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr A’s credit file;

upon receipt of evidence of payment, refund Mr A the £80 he paid for transferring his 
private number plate from the car; and

pay Mr A an additional £400 for the distress and inconvenience he’s suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality. 
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr A’s complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman
