 
 
DRN-4970112 
 
 
The complaint and what happened 
 
Mrs D has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA. 
 
I’ve included relevant sections of my provisional decision from August 2024, which form part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning to 
uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought that Mrs D was induced into 
buying the solar panel system at the heart of this dispute by misrepresentations, which 
resulted in there being an unfair relationship between her and Creation. 
 
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. 
Neither has responded. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I’m upholding it, and I’ll reiterate why, but first I’ve included here the 
relevant sections of my provisional decision: 
 
 
“What happened 
 
In June 2015, Mrs D bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “E” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
 
Mrs D complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and electricity savings she would make would cover the cost of the 
loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
She also believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between herself and Creation.  
 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mrs D had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’).  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs D referred her complaint to our service. 
 
An adjudicator considered Mrs D’s complaint, she ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
 
 
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs D and 
Creation.  
She recommended that Mrs D keep the system and Creation take into account what 
Mrs D had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. She also recommended an award of £100 distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the poor and protracted way in which Creation had dealt 
with this matter. 
 
Mrs D accepted the adjudicator’s view. Creation did not, highlighting again that the 
event complained of occurred in June 2015, and had therefore been brought too late 
for this service to consider it. Several months later it reiterated that objection, and 
went on to disagree with the adjudicator’s findings around how things should be put 
right for Mrs D. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why 
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
My provisional findings on jurisdiction 
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs D’s complaint, both in respect of the 
refusal by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair 
relationship under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs D’s s.75 
claim on 22 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs D brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 6 
December 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time 
for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
I have also considered Creation’s arguments in its response on our jurisdiction over 
the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A. I am satisfied this aspect of 
the complaint was brought in time so that the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction.  
 
Mrs D is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between herself and 
Creation per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) 
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an 
allegedly unfair relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to 
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the 
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
 
 
 
S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same way as s.75. 
Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and debtors 
as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the 
creditor exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything 
done or not done by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of 
a credit agreement or any related agreement. A court must make its determination 
under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks relevant, including matters relating to 
the creditor and matters relating to the debtor.   
 
The High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that 
determining whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made 
“having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters 
up to the time of making the determination”. The time for making determination in the 
case of an existing relationship is the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive 
at trial, or otherwise the date when the credit relationship ended. This judgment has 
recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
[2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). 
 
Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a creditor should conduct its 
relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective measures. In 
particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to expect it 
to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. 
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether 
such an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the 
relationship ended. 
 
In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. 
The question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is 
ongoing, whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. That requires 
paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to that 
point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled is responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship.   
 
In Mrs D’s case it would appear that the relationship was ongoing when she referred 
her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for 
the matters which made its relationship with Mrs D unfair and for taking steps to 
remove the source of that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the 
relationship was no longer unfair. By relying in her complaint on the unfairness of the 
credit relationship between herself and Creation, Mrs D therefore complained about 
an event that was ongoing at the time she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman.  
 
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought 
in time. I am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s 
jurisdiction to consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mrs D’s complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under 
DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal 
said a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to 
anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the 
agreement. A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation 
are relevant and important aspects of a transaction. 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation 
in any antecedent negotiations. 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair 
relationship those negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation were 
responsible under s.56 when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mrs D. 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider 
whether a Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under 
s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs D has said that she was told by E’s representative that the cost of the system 
would be covered by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would 
make on her electricity charges. She says she was told the cost of the system would 
be fully recouped in eight years and was shown a spreadsheet showing how, “…over 
the 10 years the financial benefit would be like earning an extra wage…” Mrs D says 
that E cold called her at work as part of her job, and I haven’t seen any evidence she 
had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs D to see if there was anything 
contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-
funding. 
 
I have a copy of the loan agreement, which shows that both the total amount 
payable, and the monthly cost of the loan were clear to Mrs D.  However, there is no 
mention on the agreement of the potential benefits of the panels. 
 
Mrs D has also been able to provide some sheets of documentation created by E 
giving information on the likely performance and financial benefits of the panels. 
There are two sheets that are of key relevance here. One is entitled, “Guarantee and 
System Performance Estimate”, which attempts to summarise both estimated year 1 
benefits of various components of the system, along with the estimated benefits over 
a 20-year period. It’s not clear to me whether Mrs D bought each of these 
components, and no estimated total is provided for the reader. 
 
There is a second document, which appears to be a spreadsheet. It includes a lot of 
figures, but highlights the ‘Total Income/Savings’ year on year; includes the annual 
cost of the finance; and then calculates the yearly profit Mrs D will make, thus: 
 
 
 
 
 
Whilst Mrs D recollects being told that the system would pay for itself in 8 years, this 
document in fact suggests that would happen in year 6. And that she would be 
making a healthy profit from the system from the very beginning. Indeed the 
document concludes with a calculation which sets out that, over 20 years, Mrs D 
would make a profit of nearly £78,000 by installing this system. 
 
As mentioned, I’ve seen no evidence of any motivation other than a financial one on 
Mrs D’s part to agree to the panel installation. I’m of the opinion that money would be 
a key reason to purchase the system and her savings on her electricity bills and 
income from the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation with 
a salesperson. And the documentation from the sale absolutely supports what Mrs D 
says she was told about the system paying for itself. So, I think it is more likely than 
not that Mrs D would not have agreed to the installation of the panels if E had made it 
clear that it would leave her out of pocket. 
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined 
savings and FIT income of around £1,435 per year. I have not seen anything to 
indicate Mrs D’s system was not performing as expected, but her system has not 
produced anything like this. So, these statements were not true. I think E’s 
representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs D’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations 
that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think E’s 
representative would have known that Mrs D’s system would not produce enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to 
Mrs D, or indeed in the timescales set out in writing in the documentation I’ve 
described in this decision. 
 
Considering Mrs D’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I 
think it likely E gave Mrs D a false and misleading impression of the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction 
for the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs D was expected to 
 
 
receive by agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in 
this regard likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system 
would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have 
that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs D went into the 
transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, 
undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs D’s point of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mrs D in 
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this 
the relationship between Mrs D and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she 
has had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar 
benefits and the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest 
paid on a loan she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to 
provide a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a 
detailed analysis of Mrs D’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from 
reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances. 
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs D and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation 
should repay Mrs D a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably 
have expected as a result of E’s assurances. That is, that Mrs D’s loan repayments 
should amount to no more than the financial benefits she received for the duration of 
the loan agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, I plan to direct Creation to recalculate the 
agreement based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs D received 
from the system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To 
do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs D received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs D will need to supply up to date 
details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter 
readings to Creation. 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, cited by Creation in its rejection of the 
adjudicator’s view. But this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a different approach 
to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I 
consider it likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system, and even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the 
assurances were such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs D’s 
expectation of what she would receive. I consider Mrs D has lost out, and has 
suffered unfairness in her relationship with Creation, to the extent that her loan 
repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels.  
 
 
 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs D. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money 
award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be 
what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman 
service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.  
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mrs D’s complaint in a 
reasonable timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mrs D some degree of 
trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out 
above, Creation should also pay Mrs D £100.” 
 
As mentioned above, neither Mrs D nor Creation has replied to my provisional decision. 
Therefore I have seen nothing which alters my findings as set out therein. And so it follows 
that I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Mrs D, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must now: 
  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs D has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs D’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs D should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs D  
*If Mrs D is not able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or FIT 
benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
I also think the way Creation handled Mrs D’s complaint has caused her trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2024. 
  
 
Siobhan McBride 
Ombudsman 
 
