DRN-3082393
The complaint
Mr M complains about the interest that’s been applied to his credit account with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr M entered into a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he electronically 
signed in February 2020 to pay £1,374.98 for a television on “buy now – pay later” terms. He 
didn’t pay £1,374.98 by the offer end date in February 2021 so he became liable to pay 24 
monthly payments of £89.46, staring in March 2021. He complained to Creation Consumer 
Finance that he’d not been notified that it would be applying interest. It said that he’d signed 
the agreement which outlined the special offer end date and that he’d received two 
reminders before the offer ended in his online account (as he’d requested paperless 
statement delivery) but he hadn’t made a payment before the required date so interest had 
been applied.
Mr M wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that the agreement was clear 
and contained the correct information, and that Creation Consumer Finance sent enough 
warning about the end of the “buy now – pay later” period to fulfil its obligations. 
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that Creation 
Consumer Finance was required to remind him eight and four weeks before the offer ended 
but didn’t do so, he can’t afford the payments as he’s been on furlough and that Creation 
Consumer Finance has acted unfairly.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Mr M bought a television in February 2020 and entered into a credit agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance to pay for it on “buy now – pay later” terms;

the agreement included an information statement which said: “The Buy Now Pay 
Later period for your [television] is due to end on [specified date in February 2021]. 
Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the 
payments do not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £1,374.98 by this date 
you won’t be charged any interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or 
reduce the credit amount due, you will have to make monthly payments of £89.46 
starting on [specified date in March 2021]”;

Creation Consumer Finance says that Mr M had asked for paperless statement 
delivery so statements were provided to his online account in December 2020 and 
January 2021 which showed that the “buy now – pay later” special offer was due to 
end on the specified date in February 2021 and that monthly payments would 
become due from March 2021;

it has also provided evidence to show that Mr M viewed the December 2020 
statement in his online account in January 2021, before the special offer ended;

I consider that the “buy now - pay later” terms were clearly set out in the agreement 
and were accepted by Mr M, and that he ought reasonably to have known that he 
had to pay for the television before February 2021 to avoid interest being applied to 
his account;

I also consider that Creation Consumer Finance provided him with appropriate 
reminders that the special offer was ending and I’m not persuaded that it was 
required to provide him with any more information about the offer ending;

I don’t consider that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer 
Finance has acted incorrectly or unfairly in these circumstances;

Mr M says that he can’t afford the monthly payments but I’ve seen no evidence to 
show that he contacted Creation Consumer Finance about his financial difficulties – if 
he’s experiencing financial difficulties and can’t afford the monthly payments, I 
suggest that he contacts Creation Consumer Finance to explain those difficulties and 
it’s required to respond to them positively and sympathetically; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Creation Consumer Finance to waive the interest payable under the credit 
agreement, to reduce the monthly payments that Mr M is required to make, to pay 
him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
