DRN-3320891
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a sofa he purchased through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr G has been represented by his partner during the course of this complaint but for ease, 
and as Mr G is named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Creation arranged for an inspection of the two-seater sofa in July 2020. The inspector 
confirmed there was a manufacturing problem as feet hadn’t been fitted to one side. The 
inspector concluded his report by explaining that the supplier would need to source and 
retrofit the feet.
Creation therefore upheld Mr G’s complaint and left it to Mr G to arrange that repair with the 
supplier.
The relevant legislation says that goods should be of satisfactory quality when supplied and I 
don’t think that can be said to have been the case here. The inspector has confirmed there 
was a manufacturing fault.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the fault and here I can see that’s what Creation have agreed to do. 
I don’t think it was unreasonable for them to ask Mr G to make arrangements with the 
supplier or to pay any costs if they became due. Mr G would know when he was available to 
allow the repairer access and I think it made sense for him to therefore call the supplier. It 
doesn’t seem likely any costs would be incurred but if they were I can see that Creation were 
prepared to refund them and I think they therefore met their obligations.
As Creation have done what I’d expect them to do, and what the law requires of them, I don’t 
think they’ve been unreasonable here and I’m not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
