DRN-2644586
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has dealt with 
her credit agreement and about the fees that it has applied to her account.
What happened
Ms B entered into a credit agreement for a store card with Creation Consumer Finance in 
November 2017. She used that store card to buy a number of items on “buy now – pay later” 
terms. She used the card in April 2019 to buy another item which she expected to be on “buy 
now – pay later” terms but the purchase was set up so that Creation Consumer Finance 
would start collecting monthly payments for that item. 
She contacted Creation Consumer Finance and was advised to raise the issue with the 
retailer. She cancelled her direct debit to Creation Consumer Finance for the monthly 
payments and started making manual payments instead. But she didn’t make the payment 
that was due by the beginning of June 2019 so her account went into arrears. She made 
payments each month but they were for less than the required amount and didn’t clear the 
arrears on her account so fees were applied to her account and her arrears increased. 
She stopped making payments to Creation Consumer Finance after her November 2019 
payment and complained to it. It said that not all of the items had been bought on “buy now – 
pay later” terms and that Ms B hadn’t made the required payments so interest and charges 
had been applied correctly.
Ms B wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He concluded that he didn’t think that 
Creation Consumer Finance had been unfair or unreasonable in relation to the items not 
being on “buy now – pay later” terms or that it had unfairly applied charges to her account. 
And he said that it had stopped her ability to pay off items individually because of the arrears 
that were on the account – which he didn’t think was unreasonable.
Ms B hasn’t accepted our investigator’s recommendations so her complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. Ms B says that the fees were unnecessarily applied (and the 
same fee was applied twice in the same month), Creation Consumer Finance stopped her 
paying off items individually and it and the retailer didn’t listen to her.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

it’s clear that Ms B wanted to pay for the item that she bought in April 2019 on “buy 
now - pay later” terms and as soon as she became aware that it hadn’t been set up 
on that basis she contacted Creation Consumer Finance; 

it must have been frustrating for her that the purchase hadn’t been set up on “buy 
now - pay later” terms but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show 
Ms B had correctly followed the steps necessary for it to be set up on that basis when 
she bought the item;

Ms B also contacted the retailer and I can understand the frustration she felt when 
the retailer and Creation Consumer Finance were each telling her to contact the 
other – but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation 
Consumer Finance acted incorrectly when dealing with that purchase or that it didn’t 
listen to her;

Ms B then cancelled her direct debit and started making manual payments - but she 
didn’t make the payment that was due by the beginning of June 2019 so her account 
went into arrears;

she made payments each month from then until November 2019 (as described in 
more detail by the investigator) but they were for less than the required amount and 
didn’t clear the arrears on her account so fees were applied to her account and her 
arrears increased;

Ms B stopped making payments to Creation Consumer Finance after her November 
2019 payment so the arrears on her account continued to increase and, by the time 
of her account statement in January 2021, were £996.74 (including fees);

I consider that the fees have been applied by Creation Consumer Finance in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account because Ms B hadn’t made 
the minimum required payment by the due date each month and hadn’t cleared the 
arrears on her account;

I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that those charges have 
been applied incorrectly or that it was unfair or unreasonable in these circumstances 
for Creation Consumer Finance to apply those charges;

Creation Consumer Finance says that it had stopped Ms B’s ability to pay off items 
individually because of the arrears that were on the account – and that it wanted her 
to contact it about her arrears – I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to 
show that it acted incorrectly when it did so;

I sympathise with Ms B for the difficulties that she’s experienced but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance 
has acted incorrectly in the way that it’s dealt with her account; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to waive or reduce the fees that it’s applied to Ms B’s account or the arrears 
on her account, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
I suggest that Ms B contacts Creation Consumer Finance and tries to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that she owes to it. If she doesn’t do so, I consider it 
to be likely that it will take further action to recover that amount from her (to the extent that 
it’s legally entitled to do so). If she’s experiencing any financial difficulties, it’s required to 
respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Ms B’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman
