DRN-3993316
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) irresponsibly granted her 
a loan she couldn’t afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs B applied for and was approved for a fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by Creation to help her buy an item of electrical goods costing £950. Under the 
terms of the agreement, Mrs B was required to make 36 monthly payments of £34.44. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £1,239.84.
Mrs B says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasn’t affordable. She also says granting her the loan 
contributed to her being in a cycle of debt. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and proportionate to ensure the 
credit was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan agreement.
As Mrs B didn’t agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, Creation gathered evidence and information from Mrs B about 
her ability to repay the loan. I understand it completed a credit check but I’ve only seen a 
high-level summary of what it showed. So it’s certainly possible that Creation could have 
carried out better checks before providing the credit. 
As I can’t say that Creation carried out checks that were as proportionate as they needed to 
be, I’ve thought about what the evidence and information showed. On her application Mrs B 
had told Creation that she was working full time, was renting, and that her joint household 
income was £38,000. Creation said Mrs B already owed around £1,200 by way of her 
existing credit cards and had to find around £380 per month to pay an ongoing loan. After 
allowing for her existing credit commitments and her new lending, Creation thought there 
would be enough disposable income for the new lending to be affordable. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to have verified Mrs B’s income in some 
way and I can’t see whether this happened. In the absence of anything else, I’ve reviewed 
three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I think this gives a 
reasonable indication of what Creation would likely have discovered at the time had they 
looked more into Mrs B’s financial situation. 
Looking at the three months of joint bank statements Mrs B has given us, I can see she and 
her husband were making regular use of their bank overdraft facility, but I don’t think this in 
itself is enough to show that the extra borrowing they were taking was unaffordable. The 
statements also show that Mrs B was receiving on average around £1,150 per month by way 
of net income for herself. I can’t see evidence to show or suggest that Mrs B was struggling 
significantly with household finances at the time or that her overall financial situation was 
deteriorating to the extent that the addition monthly cost of the loan would be unsustainable. 
It follows that I don’t think that taking on the monthly payments required under the 
agreement could be considered to be unaffordable. I therefore don’t think Creation acted 
unfairly when approving the loan application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
