DRN-3927359
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) failed to take account of a
payment she made to settle her account and were therefore wrong to report adverse
information to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
There’s no dispute here that Creation made a mistake. They failed to attribute a payment
Mrs B made towards her account in December 2020.
I can see that the payment was eventually identified and credited towards the account
settlement in May 2022, but it wasn’t until December 2022 that Creation confirmed to us that
they had removed the adverse reports they had been continuing to make to the credit
reference agencies.
I’m pleased to see that the issue has now been resolved but it’s clearly now necessary for
Creation to compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience she’s experienced.
Putting things right
Creation caused quite a bit of distress and inconvenience here as they failed to credit a
payment to Mrs B’s account and when they recognised that error they also failed to amend
the adverse reports they were making to the credit reference agencies. The error persisted
for a long time and once the mistake had been identified I think Creation should have
recognised the distress they had caused and have provided some compensation, but they
didn’t.
Mrs B has explained, and Creation accept, that she was in regular contact with the business
to get this issue resolved. She’s told us she’s been very upset about the matter and that
she’s been unable to sleep and has been tearful. I can see that she had made Creation
aware that the issue was affecting her health as their system notes show she told them the
matter was making her sick in October 2021. I think the default on her credit file may have
made it more difficult for Mrs B to obtain credit, but I’ve not seen evidence of that or of any
financial difficulty as a result of the credit file report.
I’ve considered how much Creation should pay Mrs B to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience caused and I don’t think £250 is sufficient in the circumstances. I think this
issue has created considerable distress, upset, and worry for Mrs B and she’s had to make
significant efforts to sort it out. The impact has been prolonged, and the business response
has been slow, especially as they were aware that the matter was affecting Mrs B’s health.
In the circumstances, I think Creation should pay Mrs B £500 to compensate her for the
distress and inconvenience she’s been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I’m expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Creation
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B £500 in compensation in respect of the distress and
inconvenience she’s experienced.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B didn’t provide any further information and Creation accepted my provisional decision 
with no further comments.
Putting things right
I’ve not been provided with any new information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I’m telling Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B 
£500 in compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience she’s experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
