DRN-2962562
The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) started a finance 
agreement before the carpets the agreement financed were all fitted. He also complains that 
Creation have reported missed payments to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator’s findings. Please let me explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Our investigator asked Creation for their file on this complaint at the end of May 2021 and on 
a further three occasions in the following weeks. As no reply was received he provided his 
view on Mr P’s complaint on 22 July 2021 and he asked Creation to provide any further 
information they would like the ombudsman to consider before 20 August 2020. 
Unfortunately, Creation haven’t responded, and I think it would be unfair to ask Mr P to wait 
any longer for a resolution, so I’m providing a decision with the information I have available 
to me.
Mr P says that the hall carpet wasn’t supplied until June 2020. He says he therefore 
authorised direct debits from July 2020 and he’s provided a statement of account that shows 
he hasn’t missed a payment since.
In Creation’s final response letter, they have suggested that Mr P signed a satisfaction note 
in March 2020 and that’s why they started to request payments on the account. Mr P has 
disputed that, and I’ve not seen a copy of that satisfaction note. It seems that the installation 
in March 2020 was for the carpets on the stairs and landing but that the hall carpet wasn’t 
fitted at that time. On the information available to me I think that was likely to be the case 
and I’m persuaded it wouldn’t be reasonable to expect Mr P to pay for goods that weren’t yet 
received.
I think the date payments should have started was in July 2020 when Mr P reinitiated the 
direct debit.
Mr P has provided copies of his credit file. There are at least eight missed payments 
recorded on that credit file which, even if delivery was completed in March 2020, would have 
been far too many. I’m not persuaded there is evidence that Mr P has missed any payments. 
Those should have started in July 2020 and did.   
Putting things right
Creation should remove any late payment markers and any charges associated with those 
late payment markers.
Mr P has clearly been inconvenienced by Creation’s actions. He’s struggled to get a 
response from them, and they appear to have recorded inaccurate information on his credit 
file. In those circumstances I think Creation should pay him £300 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr P’s credit file in 
relation to this agreement and any interest or charges they may have applied as a 
result of missed payments;
pay Mr P £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
