DRN-2469562
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about 
three years and a half years old and had already completed a little over 30,000 miles. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect some signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that a consumer can return a car within 30 days if there’s 
something wrong with it and that if that’s the case the business do not have the right to insist 
on repairing the fault.
When Mr S returned the car to the dealership within the first 30 days he sent an email that 
explained it had gone into limp mode and that there was whistling, and the car was shaking. 
The business arranged for an independent inspector to look at the car, but the inspector 
couldn’t find anything wrong with it. He noted there were no fault codes stored and that the 
engine and transmission ran smoothly. He said there were no abnormal noises and no 
warning messages on the dashboard and that the car didn’t go into limp mode. He thought 
the car was of acceptable quality.
If there’s no fault with a vehicle the relevant legislation doesn’t allow a consumer to reject it 
within the first 30 days.
Mr S has subsequently provided his own report in which the inspector has explained the car 
has been the subject of damage repairs. But that inspector hasn’t suggested there’s 
anything wrong with the car and I don’t think the fact a car has been repaired is a reason to 
suggest it’s of unsatisfactory quality. The inspector hasn’t suggested any of the repairs are 
substandard and even if he had, as these issues were not the ones Mr S referred to in his 
rejection email, they have been referred after the 30-day rejection window has shut and the 
business would reasonably have a right to repair them.
Mr S has also provided a report from a franchised dealership. This identifies that the air 
sensor is faulty and there’s a squeaking from the V belt. Again, they’re not issues that were 
reported in March 2016 when Mr S returned the car. If a consumer identifies a problem 
within the first six months the relevant legislation suggests we should assume the fault was 
present when the car was supplied and that the business is responsible for the repair – 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But this was a three and a half year old car and I 
don’t think it would be reasonable to ask the business to repair the sensor or investigate the 
squeaking from the V belt. I don’t think I have been provided with enough information to 
suggest they are significant issues and I think it’s reasonable to expect some wear and tear 
to be present on a car of this age and mileage. I don’t think the issues identified by the 
franchised dealership could reasonably be considered to suggest the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr S has identified that there have been several recalls on his make of vehicle. The 
presence of a recall doesn’t necessarily suggest a vehicle is of unsatisfactory quality and I 
note each of the recalls suggest the vehicle may be subject to the fault, they don’t suggest 
the car necessarily is and I’ve not seen any evidence of faults on the car relating to the recall 
notifications. The investigator has also confirmed through the manufacturer that none of the 
current outstanding recalls on this vehicle relate to airbags. So, I’m also not persuaded this 
car was of unsatisfactory quality as a result of these recalls.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think there is sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and I’m not asking Creation to take any further action.
 My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
