K821x#15
complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCFL) mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a personal loan.
background
In 2005 Mr M took out a loan to buy some furniture, and also bought a PPI policy to protect 
his repayments.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. His view was that CCFL hadn’t made the policy’s cost 
clear enough to Mr M. In particular, he didn’t think the interest charged on the loan for the 
PPI had been brought to Mr M’s attention.
CCFL didn’t agree with the adjudicator’s conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr M’s case.
Mr M said he was advised to take out the PPI when his loan was arranged. CCFL has 
described the sale as non-advised. I can’t be sure that the policy was recommended to 
Mr M. But whether or not the policy was recommended, a key consideration I must address 
is whether CCFL gave Mr M information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to 
put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was 
buying.
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider whether 
Mr M is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different – such as not 
taking out the policy – if there had not been any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mr M’s complaint and I’ve set out my reasons below.
I’ve considered the cost information that was provided to Mr M when the PPI policy was 
taken out. This was contained within the loan agreement. The personal loan amount was 
shown separately to the loan relating to the PPI single premium payment and a warranty 
also being sold (£558.39 in total for the PPI and warranty). The total of these two figures was 
then shown as the total amount of credit. Further down the agreement the price of the PPI 
premium alone (£358.39) was listed.
The total interest due over the term of the loan that related to the PPI single premium 
(£319.56) was not shown on the loan agreement. Instead, the total amount payable for 
insurances was shown as £1,056.28. This represented a combination of the PPI premium, 
the warranty premium, and interest added to these.
It may have been possible for Mr M to work out what the interest was on the PPI premium 
from the figures provided. However, this was made more difficult because he also bought a 
Ref: DRN0975507
2
warranty, and the cost of the warranty plus interest on it was included in the total amount 
payable.
CCFL has stated that Mr M would also have been given a ‘Statement of Price’ document 
showing the interest charged on the PPI premium. However this was at the end of the policy 
summary and I don’t think this sufficiently brought it to Mr M’s attention. Overall, I think this 
information should’ve been more clearly set out for him by CCFL. This would’ve ensured he 
understood what costs he would have to pay if he took out the PPI cover.
As CCFL didn’t give Mr M clear information about the total costs relating to the PPI policy, 
I must consider whether he would have done anything differently if this information had been 
provided.
The interest due on the PPI premium loan represented a further cost of almost 90%, in 
addition to the single premium cost itself. So I think the PPI represented a significant extra 
cost.
I don’t think Mr M would’ve wanted to buy the policy if he’d fully understood the extra amount 
he’d have to pay for the PPI. Mr M was also only borrowing a relatively small sum for the 
goods he wanted to buy. So I think the PPI policy was mis-sold to Mr M.
putting things right
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr M needs to get back the extra he’s paid.
So, CCFL should:

Work out and pay Mr M the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CCFL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires CCFL to take off tax from this interest. CCFL must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
compensation to Mr M in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2017.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0975507
