K821x#15
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background
Mr B was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to as ‘G’, that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting, Mr B agreed to enter into a contract with G for it to supply and 
install a solar panel system costing around £7,500. To pay for this, Mr B also agreed to enter 
into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr B, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. The 
representative said that G had told Mr B that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be covered by any electricity savings and feed-in-tariff 
(‘FIT’) income from the solar panels. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher.
In its final response letter, Creation said it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented to Mr B and his solar panel system was performing in line with the 
contract he had signed with G. Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said that G had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panels to Mr B so thought his complaint should be 
upheld. To put things rights she said that Creation should calculate the potential income and 
savings to Mr B over the term of the loan. She asked Creation to then restructure the loan so 
that he wouldn’t pay any more than this over the 10 year term. As this would mean that Mr B 
may have overpaid each month, she thought Creation should give him the following options 
as to how he’d like any overpayments to be used:
a.
any overpayments to be used to reduce the outstanding balance of his loan and Mr B 
would continue to make his current monthly loan payment meaning his loan would 
finish early,
b.
any overpayments to be used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr B 
pays a new, lower monthly loan amount until the end of the current loan term,
c.
any overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his currently 
monthly loan repayment meaning his loan would finish early, or;
d.
any overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new, lower monthly amount 
until the end of the loan term.
She also recommended Creation pay Mr B £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr B accepted the recommendation from the investigator. Creation didn’t agree, so the 
matter has been passed to me to review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN0528488
2
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 (‘s56’) and s75 of the CCA, which provided 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.”
As Mr B paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, Creation agrees that s75 applies to 
this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Creation – the creditor – for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by G in the same way he could have claimed against 
G, the supplier. So, I’ve taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and G, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by G as an agent of Creation.
Mr B says that he was contacted by G and during a sales meeting told that the installation 
would be entirely self-financing. Mr B wasn’t looking to buy a solar panel system until he was 
approached by G. I think he would have been relying on the salesperson to fully explain the 
benefits and any associated costs to him before they were installed.
There is limited information available from the time of sale. I’ve been provided with a copy of 
the sales presentation that G says it would’ve gone through with Mr B, a copy of Mr B’s 
signed credit agreement, a customer satisfaction note signed by Mr B, a personalised 
illustration showing a review of the expected benefits from the solar panel system, a copy of 
a compliance script G says it would have gone through with Mr G as well as a table to show 
that G had actually underestimated the performance of Mr B’s solar panel system.
I’ve considered each of these documents carefully. Having reviewed the sales presentation 
that G says it went through with Mr B, I can see no reference to the solar panel system being 
self-funding. And this is the same for the satisfaction note Mr B has signed.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the term of the loan, the interest 
rate being charged, the amount of interest being added, Mr B’s monthly payments and the 
total amount payable. I’m satisfied that this is clear, and Mr B doesn’t dispute that he was 
aware of what his monthly loan repayments would be but that he was led to believe that they 
would be covered by the benefits from his solar panels.
I’ll now turn to the personalised illustration that was given to Mr B at the time he agreed to 
the solar panel installation as well as the finance through Creation. This shows that the total 
first year benefit Mr B should expect to receive from his solar panels was £777. But it doesn’t 
compare this figure to his annual loan repayments. So, whilst I accept that it is clear what the 
expected first year benefits of the solar panels would be as it doesn’t compare it to the 
associated finance cost, I don’t think it’s clear that the panels wouldn’t be self-funding. 
Therefore, I’m of the view that Mr B would’ve relied on the representation made by the 
salesperson for G that the panels would be self-funding.
Ref: DRN0528488
3
The personal illustration also shows a payback time of nine years with a 1st year tax free 
return of 9.1%. But, as explained above these figures don’t include the associated finance. 
Creation has said it should’ve been clear to Mr B that the payback time and tax-free return 
was based on the cost price of the panels only. I don’t agree. The document refers to the 
‘Cost of Full Investment’ which I find misleading.
There are also some handwritten figures on the illustration. They show that the overall 
lifetime benefit of the solar panel system divided by 240, the lifetime of the panels in months, 
would give Mr B a monthly income of £170. I’m of the view that this supports Mr B’s 
testimony that he was told the solar panels would be self-funding as his monthly loan 
repayments were around £108. 
The final document I’ve considered is the compliance script G says would have been used 
with Mr B prior to the installation of the solar panels. The first part of the script refers to when 
the installers will be arriving at the property. The next part of the script relates to the finance 
for the solar panel system. The questions that G says it asked were:
“I would just like to confirm you have chosen one of the finance options as way of payment (-
confirm the payment terms.)
Has the sales representative gone through the finance details with you
Do you full understand by choosing a finance option there may be interest on your balance 
making the total amount payable significantly more than a one off payment
Was you offered all payment options of bnpl 3 yr & 5 yr interest free 120 months and one off 
payment in full
Did the sales rep explain the estimated returns and benefits from the system and show you a 
personalised report ?
Was a copy of the estimated returns , order form and finance left with you”
I’ve considered each of the questions and whether any of them would’ve meant Mr B should 
have understood that this solar panels wouldn’t be self-funding. I’m satisfied that none of the 
questions would’ve made it clear that the panels wouldn’t be self-funding and support that Mr 
B was reliant on the information he was given by the salesperson for G.
Taking everything that I have explained, I believe it is more likely than not that the 
salesperson for G led Mr B to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding and the 
benefits would be sufficient to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement. 
I’ve considered whether the solar panels were self-funding. I’m of view that for the solar 
panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Mr B, the savings and income he 
would receive should have been sufficient to cover the repayments due under the loan 
agreement.
Based on the figures provided by G at the time of sale, the total expected return to Mr B from 
the benefits from his solar panels would’ve come to £777 whereas the loan repayments were 
about £1,300 a year. Creation has said Mr B’s solar panels have outperformed the estimate 
and his first year return was £813.
Ref: DRN0528488
4
Taking the figure provided by Creation into account, Mr B was likely to have been out of 
pocket by around £487 in the first year. And that would broadly been the same during the 
term of the loan. This means that the solar panels aren’t self-funding. I’m satisfied that G 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr B.  
Mr B didn’t have any prior experience of the solar panel systems and was cold called by G. 
I’m satisfied that Mr B decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar panel system 
based on the representation made by G that the system would be self-funding.
For the reasons I have explained above, I find that Mr B has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by G. The system wasn’t self-funding and Mr B has ended up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by G, I find that it is responsible for Mr B’s loss.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. My role here is to 
arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking into account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mr B’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I don’t think it 
would be fair or reasonable to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. And it 
is also accepted that it would cost Creation a significant sum to remove them. So, I don’t 
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. Rather, I think the fair outcome here is 
to put Mr B in a position where the panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan. 
By allowing Mr B to keep the panels, he will likely benefit from lower electricity bills or FIT 
payments going forward.
By making the panels self-funding, Mr B’s monthly loan repayments will likely reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as he will have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I expect 
Creation to add 8% simple interest a year from the date the overpayment was made until the 
date of settlement. Like our investigator, I think the fairest resolution would be to allow Mr B 
to decide how he’d like any overpayments to be used from the following options:
(a) any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of his loan and he continues to make his current monthly loan repayment 
resulting in his loan finishing early,
(b) any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding loan 
balance and Mr B pays a new, lower monthly loan payment until the original loan 
term,
(c) any overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr B and he continues to 
make his current monthly loan repayment resulting in his loan finishing early, or;
(d) any overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr B and he pays a new, 
lower monthly loan payment until the original loan term.
My understanding is that Mr B had previously said he’d like option a, and if he accepts my 
decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form his preferred option.
Ref: DRN0528488
5
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
didn’t happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently I’ll make an 
award of £100 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr B’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mr B to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr B form the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this,

add 8% simple interest* a year to any overpayment from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,

allow Mr B to decide how he’d like any overpayments and associated interest to be 
used, using the four options described above, and;

pay Mr B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax form that interest, it should tell Mr B how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr B a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN0528488
