K820x#11
complaint
Mr D complains that a loan agreement he entered into with Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited, trading as Creation, was mis-sold to him. 
background
Mr D signed a loan agreement in his name with Creation to help a third party, Mr F, buy a sofa. Mr D 
said that the retailer told him that he only needed to make one repayment by direct debit, and then he 
could transfer the agreement to Mr F to make the repayments. Mr D then arranged for Mr F to have a 
password so that he could contact Creation to take over the repayments. But Mr F did not do so. Mr D 
stopped making repayments as he did not consider that he had the responsibility to continue to make 
them.
Creation said that as the agreement was in Mr D’s name, he was liable to continue to make the 
payments due under the agreement.
.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He noted that the agreement 
was in Mr D’s name. Above Mr D’s signature, the agreement said “sign it only
if you want to be legally bound by its terms.” There was nothing on the agreement to suggest
that it could be transferred. But he also said that it was possible for a third party to make payments 
towards an agreement. All that was needed was for the agreement holder to give permission, and for 
the third party to phone with their bank details. The adjudicator concluded that it was more likely than 
not that this was what the retailer’s salesman meant when he said that the third party could take over 
the payments. He did not think that Mr D had entered into the agreement on the basis of incorrect 
information. 
Ms R, on behalf of Mr D, disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that Mr D believed that Mr F 
had changed the payment details. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I find that I have come to 
the same conclusions as the adjudicator did, for much the same reasons.
I have sympathy for the situation in which Mr D now finds himself. I can see that he was 
trying to help a third party, Mr F, buy a sofa. He said that the shop told him that he would 
only need to make one repayment. Like the adjudicator, I accept that this may have been 
possible, provided that Mr F then took over responsibility for the other loan repayments by 
contacting Creation and giving it his bank details. I can see that Mr D said that Mr F wanted 
to improve his credit rating, so I consider that it was possible that Mr F had told Mr D that he 
would take over the repayments. But I note that whilst Mr F had been given the information to do 
this, I have seen no evidence that he did so. This is an issue between Mr D and Mr F. 
I also accept that Creation was unable to contact Mr F because of data protection. 
I do not have any evidence of what was said at the point of sale. But I can see that Mr D 
signed the loan agreement with Creation. The agreement said “You are entering into a legal 
agreement which requires you to make regular repayments. You should consider your ability 
to meet these repayment obligations.” It also said that “By signing this agreement I agree to 
make payments by Direct Debit from the bank account shown in this section” and Mr D’s 
Ref: DRN0825922
2
bank details were shown. I cannot hold Creation responsible if Mr D did not read the 
agreement, or query what it said before he signed it.
So, having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I am not persuaded that 
I have grounds to instruct Creation to cancel the loan agreement. I appreciate that Mr D will 
be unhappy with my decision. However he is not bound by it. If he does not wish to accept 
my decision, his legal rights to pursue the matter through the courts remain intact. 
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0825922
