K821x#12
complaint
This complaint concerns the sale of a single premium payment protection (PPI) policy sold 
with a loan in November 2005. The policy was sold by Open + Direct Retail Services 
Limited, which is now known as Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. For the purposes of this 
decision I will refer to the business as “Creation”. Mr H says Creation mis-sold the policy. 
my findings
I have included only a brief summary of the complaint above, but I have considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account relevant regulatory 
requirements, the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. 
The main questions I need to consider are:
-
If Creation gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr H’s needs?
-
Did Creation give Mr H the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
However, if there were any shortcomings in the way the policies were sold, then I need to 
consider whether they affected Mr H’s position and whether he would have acted differently 
if there had not been any shortcomings.
Mr H has said that Creation told him he would not get the loan without taking out the policy. 
Creation says the policy was sold on a non-advised basis because the sale was completed 
by post. Creation and Mr H agree that the initial sale took place during a phone call. 
Unfortunately Creation has not been able to provide a copy of the call recording. It has 
provided part of the call script the adviser would have followed when selling the policy. I see 
little reason to consider that the call script was not followed by the adviser.
The adviser is prompted to explain the policy is designed for “people who wish to ensure that 
their monthly repayments under the loan agreement are covered in the event of death, 
accident, sickness or unemployment.” This wording does not suggest the adviser would 
have given Mr H advice about whether the policy was suitable for him. 
Therefore, Creation did not have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr H. But it was 
still required to ensure he was provided with enough information about the policy in a way 
that allowed him to make an informed choice. 
Mr H has said he was told he would not be able to get the loan without taking out the 
insurance. Creation has said the policy was optional and would have been presented to 
Mr H in this way. As the call recording is no longer available I cannot be certain how the 
policy was presented to Mr H during the call. The call script provided shows the adviser 
would have been prompted to give Mr H a quote with and without the PPI policy, which might 
have indicated to Mr H that he could take the loan without the PPI policy. I also note that 
Ref: DRN0347753
2
Mr H had to sign separately for the PPI policy. I think it is reasonable that if he thought the 
PPI policy was part of the loan he would have queried why he needed to sign twice for it. 
As I have not been provided with the call recording or full call script I have reservations 
about the information that was provided to Mr H before he agreed to the policy. For the 
purposes of this decision, I have limited my comments to the following significant 
shortcoming, as it is sufficient to persuade me that the complaint should be upheld.
The policy Mr H took out provided a less than pro rata refund of the single premium amount 
if it was cancelled early. This means if the policy is cancelled part way through its term, 
the cover ends up being more expensive due to the limited nature of the refund provided on 
early cancellation. And if the consumer uses another loan to repay the original one, they 
could still end up incurring costs in relation to the policy even if they cancel it because the 
residual amount of the premium not refunded would form part of the subsequent loan 
balance, and have to be repaid.
This is a significant feature of the policy taken out by Mr H and I would expect it to be drawn 
to his attention. The partial call script provided by Creation shows Mr H is likely to have only 
been given limited information about what would happen if he cancelled the policy early. 
It makes no mention that any refund would be less than he might reasonably expect and 
refers him to the policy terms and conditions for full details.
I appreciate careful consideration of the documentation might have made Mr H aware he 
would not get a proportionate refund of the single premium amount if the policy was 
cancelled early. But I do not consider this information was given enough prominence. 
It appears towards the end of the policy summary and policy document. It is also reasonable 
that Mr H would rely on the information he was given during the telephone call, rather than 
thinking he would need to read the documentation. I am therefore not persuaded Creation 
did enough to draw this significant feature of the policy to Mr H’s attention.
As Mr H was borrowing specifically to consolidate two existing loans with Creation, this might 
indicate he was likely to refinance again in the future, so want the flexibility to do so. I find it 
unlikely he would have taken out the policy if he had known he would not get a proportionate 
refund of the single premium if he cancelled the policy early.
It follows that I intend to uphold this complaint and make an award against Creation.
fair compensation
From the evidence I have seen in this case it seems most likely to me that if Mr H had not 
purchased the policy, he would still have taken out the loan. So he should be put back in the 
position he would have been in had the policy not been sold.
It is my understanding that both the loan and insurance policy have run the full term. 
Therefore Creation should:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr H because PPI was added 
to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if he had taken out the 
loan without PPI
Ref: DRN0347753
3
•
subtracting those amounts from what he actually paid and pay him the difference 
•
paying Mr H interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid†.
B. Write to Mr H to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under A.
† This part of the compensation may be subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of 
the compensation will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate tax from the 
compensation and Mr H’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax position 
can be found on our website. 
Mr H should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr H’s complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay compensation 
to him in line with the redress calculation set out above.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0347753
