K821x#15
complaint
Mrs M says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2009, Mrs M took out a £10,050 loan during a telephone conversation. At the same time, 
Creation sold her a PPI policy. The PPI policy offered Mrs M life, hospitalisation and 
personal accident cover.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs M’s complaint. She found that Creation shouldn’t have sold the 
policy to Mrs M without pointing out to her that it wouldn’t meet her needs because of her 
health problems. Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mrs M enough information about the 
policy exclusions so that she could make an informed choice.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs M’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs M’s complaint.
Based on the evidence I’ve seen I don’t’ think Creation recommended the policy to Mrs M. 
This means it didn’t have to make sure the policy was right for her needs and circumstances. 
But it did have to give Mrs M enough clear information about the policy so that she could 
make an informed decision about whether she wanted to buy it. 
The policy didn’t cover medical conditions that a person had when they bought the policy. 
Mrs M had a number of health problems when she took out the policy. So I think the policy 
wouldn’t have covered the most likely reason she would’ve had to claim on it. That means 
the policy was worth a lot less to her. Creation should’ve clearly pointed this out to Mrs M, so 
she could decide if she wanted the policy or not. And I don’t think Creation did that well 
enough.
Creation has given us a recording of its sales calls with Mrs M and I’ve listened to them. The 
sales advisor told Mrs M that the policy had exclusion’s and that “generally you would not be 
covered for any pre-existing medical conditions.” But there was no further discussion or 
explanation about it. And the sales advisor didn’t pause to check Mrs M’s understanding of 
the information she was being given. 
The sales advisor didn’t tell Mrs M that the policy didn’t provide hospitalisation cover where 
the claim related to any pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) unless a person has “been 
symptom free and has not consulted a doctor or received treatment for the condition in the 
24 months prior to your claim.” And didn’t tell Mrs M benefit wouldn’t be paid for “any claim 
due to or arising from any pre-existing medical condition – any condition, injury, illness, 
disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated symptoms whether diagnosed 
or not.” So I don’t think Creation made the extent of this exclusion clear to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN0089007
2
Creation says Mrs M would’ve been given the policy summary and it was her responsibility 
to review the information within this document to decide whether the policy was right for her. 
But Creation has also told us that the policy summary would’ve only been sent to Mrs M after 
she’d agreed to take out the policy.  
Even if I accept Mrs M did see the policy summary, I don’t think the exclusions relating to 
PEMC’s were made clear to her. I accept that the policy summary does mention that 
PEMC’s are excluded under the policy. But this was in small closely worded text and in small 
type. So I think it could easily have been missed by Mrs M. Even if Mrs M did see this 
document and the exclusion relating to PEMC’s it would not have made clear to her the 
extent of this exclusion.
The policy document, which Creation has not suggested would’ve been available to Mrs M at 
the point of sale, includes within the definition of a pre-existing condition “related 
conditions and / or associated symptoms”. And while Mrs M may have been sent this 
afterwards she would only have been able to establish the exclusion by cross-referencing 
the definitions section of the policy document with that relating to the exclusions.
I don’t think this was good enough to meet her information needs. In any case, it appears 
Mrs M made her decision to take the policy out during her phone call with Creation. So it was 
at that point her attention should’ve been drawn to the policy exclusions so that she could 
make a properly informed choice.
It seems to me this exclusion is something that would’ve been important to Mrs M and 
would’ve affected her decision to take out the policy. I say this because Mrs M has told us 
she had a chronic condition before she took out the policy. Mrs M’s medical condition was 
serious, likely to worsen and could lead to other conditions. So I think it would’ve been 
difficult for Mrs M to make a claim. And I think when she agreed to take out the policy, given 
the nature of her condition, she might well have thought any future stay in hospital could well 
relate to her PEMC or something related to it.
In summary, if Creation had made Mrs M aware of this important aspect of the policy, I don’t 
think she’d have taken it out. This is because she’d have realised she couldn’t claim for her 
medical conditions. This means she’s lost out because of what Creation did wrong when it 
sold the policy and it should put this right
I recognise the policy also provided life and personal accident cover. But in order to benefit 
from this Mrs M would need to die or lose her sight or a limb (or lose use of a limb) because 
of an accident. So I think she might have thought the circumstances in which she was likely 
to benefit from these elements of the cover were limited.
what Creation should do to put things right
Creation should put Mrs M in the position she’d be in now if she hadn’t taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasn’t been cancelled already, and Creation should:

Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month for the PPI

Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on†.
Ref: DRN0089007
3

If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs M’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to pay her compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2016.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0089007
