K822x
complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
background 
Mrs K was contacted by I-Power Systems Limited (‘I-Power’), a company that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Mrs K agreed to enter into a contract 
with I-Power for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about £10,000. To fund 
this Mrs K also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mrs K made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA via her representative. The 
representative said that I-Power had told Mrs K that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ 
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) 
income. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mrs K. Unhappy with this response, Mrs K referred the 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented. She recommended that Creation calculate the 
potential savings and income to Mrs K over the term of the loan. She said it should then 
restructure the loan so that Mrs K didn’t pay any more than this over the 10 year term of the 
loan. She also recommended that Creation pay Mrs K £100 to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused.
Creation accepted our investigator’s view. Mrs K, via her representative, didn’t. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says that they were cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels 
would be entirely self-financing. Having carefully considered the available evidence, like the 
investigator I think that I-Power did misrepresent the benefits of the solar panel system. 
Creation has accepted the investigator’s view and as a result this decision will deal with what 
I consider to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from Mrs K’s home. Rather, I think 
the fair outcome here is to put her in a position where the panels are self-funding over the 
Ref: DRN0855387
2
original term of the loan. By allowing Mrs K to keep the panels, I am satisfied that she will 
likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of 
the loan has finished).
Mrs K’s representative says that she was told that the loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT. So I’ve considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into account 
when arriving at fair compensation.
I’m satisfied that Mrs K was misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-funding 
and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that question, I 
think it’s fair to take account of the electricity generated by the solar panel units. On the one 
hand Mrs K has to pay her loan and for any electricity used in addition to that generated by 
the panels and on the other she can off-set those payments by the FIT payments and the 
savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would be unfair to ignore 
the electricity generated and used by Mrs K when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been shared with 
Mrs K’s representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Mrs K’s solar panel system. 
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mrs K’s 
solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mrs K’s solar panels that she is  
expected to use rather than buying electricity from her energy provider. An ombudsman who 
issued a previous final determination considered that a 50% self-consumption rate was a fair 
assumption as this was the assumption used by Government. Following further submissions, 
in a previous decision I was satisfied that a self-consumption rate of 37% was reasonable.   
Mrs K’s representative has said that the methodology being used to make the panels self-
funding is out of date. It has provided a joint statement from two industry experts to support 
this. In particular the experts disagree that a self-consumption rate of 37% should be used in 
every case and that a payment should be made towards covering ongoing maintenance and 
repair costs.
I’ll deal first with the self-consumption rate. I’ve thought carefully about the points the 
representative has made as well as the expert testimony provided. I’ve taken into account 
that both experts have previously provided reports to this service and have disagreed on 
what they consider to be a reasonable self-consumption rate. For example previously one 
expert has said 25% is reasonable while the other has suggested that at the point of 
calculating redress a rate of 37-41% was reasonable for a passive consumer but went on to 
say that using the Energy Trust’s online calculator which takes more account of occupancy 
during the day a rate of 37% was reasonable.  
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time someone is in their 
home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar panel system is generating. 
And so I’m not persuaded that I should use the Government’s 50% rate or the higher end of 
the passive consumer. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure over the period of 
the loan is difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that 
is fair and reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isn’t an exact science.
Ref: DRN0855387
3
Taking the above into account I’m satisfied that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case. I’m of the opinion that this takes into account all the available 
evidence discussed above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy 
habits over the lifetime of the solar panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m 
satisfied that it is highly likely that Mrs K will continue to benefit from the system as a result 
of a reduction in her electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels and 
the FIT payments. 
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
I turn now to consider on-going maintenance and repair costs. The joint statement I referred 
to above suggests that the inverter will need to be replaced at least twice over the lifetime of 
the panels, at a cost of around £1,050 each time.
 
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of 
the solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panels self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, 
as I’ve already outlined above, Mrs K is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar 
panel system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. In addition, Mrs K has 
the flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover her overpayments together with interest. 
Based on the available information I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mrs K has the flexibility to be paid her compensation 
payment as a lump sum to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons I’ve given above I’m not persuaded that the business should make 
an award for maintenance and repair costs. 
By making the panels self-funding, Mrs K’s monthly repayments will reduce, meaning that 
she would’ve previously been overpaying more each month. And as Mrs K would have been 
deprived of the monthly overpayment I would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from 
the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest 
resolution would be to let Mrs K have the following selection of options as to how she would 
like her overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs K 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs K 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
Ref: DRN0855387
4
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs K first 
contacted Creation that means that their claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
did not happen undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset and consequently I’ll make an 
award of £100 to cover this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mrs K’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Mrs K to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs K from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mrs K’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) allow Mrs K to decide how she’d like her overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e) pay Mrs K £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its’s taken off. It should also give Mrs K a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN0855387
