K820x#10
summary of complaint
This complaint concerns the sale of a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in connection with a loan in March 2006. 
In summary, Mrs Y applied for a loan of during a meeting at a ‘Land of Leather’ showroom. 
The loan was taken out for the purpose of buying a sofa. Creation agreed to grant the loan 
over three years (but deferred for one year, during the ‘special offer period’) and also sold 
Mrs Y a PPI policy, with the same term. The premium was to be paid by way of a single 
amount added to the original loan and upon which interest was payable over the full term of 
the loan. 
Mrs Y complains that Creation mis-sold the PPI policy to her. In particular she believes that 
the policy was presented as compulsory, she could have relied on her husband to meet the 
loan repayments and therefore the policy was unsuitable for her. 
my findings
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case, I have 
considered the issues in accordance with our general approach to considering complaints 
about the mis-sale of PPI, which is well-documented. This includes taking into account the 
law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold, and any relevant regulation. 
In essence, the questions I need to consider are:

whether Creation gave Mrs Y information that was clear, fair and not misleading in
order to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the
insurance she was buying;

whether, in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to
ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Mrs Y’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which Creation sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether Mrs Y is worse off as a result; that is, would she have done something 
different – ie not taken out the policy – if there had been no shortcomings.
DRN0385529
2
Mrs Y says she cannot remember whether she received advice or not. Given that the sale 
took place more than five years ago it understandable that her recollections are not detailed. 
Creation says the policy was taken out on a non advised basis. It has provided a key facts 
document, which it’s says would have been given to Mrs Y at the time. This document 
explains that Mrs Y would not receive advice or a recommendation about PPI. So on 
balance and for the purposes of this decision I am persuaded Creation did not advise Mrs Y 
to take out the policy. 
Therefore Creation did not have to assess the suitability of the policy for Mrs Y’s 
circumstances. However it did have to provide her with sufficient information about the cover 
so that she was able to make a proper and fully informed decision about whether to take out 
the policy. 
Mrs Y says that she was led to believe the PPI was compulsory in order for her finance 
application to be approved; and I cannot discount this possibility. Creation says that the 
policy was presented as optional to Mrs Y. It has provided a copy of the loan agreement 
which Mrs Y signed at the time. This contained a section relating to PPI. Mrs Y signed the 
credit agreement in two places, firstly for the loan credit and then separately below a tick to 
confirm ‘I wish to purchase Payment Protection Insurance’; From this evidence it seems 
unlikely that the representative insisted that Mrs Y had to take PPI. I am satisfied that at the 
time of the sale, Mrs Y was aware that PPI was optional and chose to take it out. 
I am unable to know for certain what was discussed at the time the credit and policy were 
arranged. And I am unable to safely conclude what information Mrs Y would have been 
given at the time or know how it was presented to her. However, for the reasons below, even 
if I accept there may have been possible shortcomings in how Creation sold the policy in 
question to Mrs Y, I am not persuaded that I can safely conclude that Mrs Y would have 
acted any differently – that is, she would still have taken out the PPI cover from the outset. 
I say this because:

Mrs Y was eligible for the plan, apparently in good health and employed full time.
Therefore she was not affected by any of the potentially significant limitations or
exclusions (such as those relating to pre-existing medical conditions or unusual
employment terms) that might have made it poor value for her.

Mrs Y was assuming a new and additional financial commitment. She has said that
she had no existing private insurance provision to provide her with payment security
in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. This suggests to me that there
was a need for the policy.

I have carefully considered the information provided to Mrs Y about the cost of the
product. I think it more likely than not that Mrs Y was provided with enough
information to make an informed choice. The loan agreement details both the initial
cost of the PPI and the total cost. The statement of price details the initial cost of the
PPI, the interest charged on the PPI and the total cost. Taken together, and even in
the absence of a monthly payment figure, it is my view this was enough for Mrs Y to
make an informed choice about the cost of the cover she was purchasing and
whether it represented value to her.

I note Mrs Y says that should she be unable to work due to sickness she would
receive some sick pay benefits (at least two weeks full pay) from her employer. She
could also rely on her husband for financial assistance. As I have already explained
3
I am satisfied that Mrs Y expressed an interest in protecting her repayments. The 
policy provides a substantial enhancement to her employer sick pay and would also 
reduce her reliance on any financial help from her husband in what might be a 
difficult time financially. So, taking this all into account, I think Mrs Y would have 
viewed the policy as being of value to her.

Unless the loan was settled early in accordance with its special offer period terms,
after the PPI policy had fully ‘kicked in’, it offered only a non pro-rata rebate in the
event of early cancellation. I consider this to be a restrictive cancellation term. In my
view, this could be problematic if Mrs Y intended to refinance the loan, or repay it
after the special offer period ended but before the end of the scheduled term. I am
not satisfied that this was sufficiently drawn to her attention; however her
submissions when making the complaint do not suggest to me she considered
repaying the loan early. I am therefore not persuaded that Mrs Y suffered detriment
from this restrictive term; because I am satisfied that she did not require flexibility to
repay the loan early at the outset.
I have noted the comments made by Mrs Y’s representative about the fine imposed by the 
regulator on Land of Leather (when it was authorised in its own right) for its sales practices 
between 5 May 2006 and 20 June 2007. As Mrs Y’s policy was sold in March 2006 it fell 
outside of the fine period. Mrs Y’s sale took place in a Land of Leather showroom but the 
representative who sold it was authorised to act as an appointed representative of Creation. 
Therefore the responsibility for the sale lies with Creation. Having carefully reviewed the sale 
of Mrs Y’s policy, I am not persuaded the information within the FSA’s final notice is material 
to the outcome of this complaint. 
Having considered the position carefully, I accept there may have been some shortcomings 
in the information provided by Creation to Mrs Y. But I cannot say for certain that she has 
been disadvantaged by this. I realise my conclusions will be a disappointment to Mrs Y but, 
had Creation provided her with clearer information to enable her to make an informed 
choice, I am not persuaded that she would necessarily have done anything different.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Mrs Y has suffered detriment as a 
result of any possible shortcomings on Creation Consumer Finance Limited’s part when 
purchasing the PPI policy. So I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited. 
Daniel Little
ombudsman
