K820x#14
complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t give her a refund.
Mr P, Mrs P’s relative, represents Mrs P in her complaint. To keep things simple where I’ve 
received information or a response from Mr P I’ve said it comes from Mrs P.
background
I set out the background to this complaint in my provisional decision. In it I explained that I 
had seen several experts’ reports that all mentioned the filling in the sofa. The latest and 
most impartial report i.e. the one from the Furniture Ombudsman said that Mrs P’s complaint 
that the sofa had a manufacturing fault was “fully justified”. 
On this basis I thought it fair and reasonable that Creation write off the loan and give Mrs P 
back any money she’d paid with interest. 
Further I thought Creation should pay Mrs P for the experts’ reports she’d sorted out and 
paid for. And give her interest on this money too. Finally I asked Creation to remove the sofa 
and to pay for this.
I asked Mrs P and Creation to comment on my provisional decision if they wanted to do so. 
Both said that they agreed with it.
my findings
I thank Mrs P and Creation for their responses to my provisional decision. I’ve re-considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs P and Creation have agreed with my provisional decision I’ve come to the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as I did in it.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Write off the loan agreement. And mark the agreement as settled on Mrs P’s credit 
file.

Refund Mrs P’s deposit and pay 8% simple interest per year on it. The interest to run 
from the date Mrs P paid the deposit to the date of settlement.

Refund any repayments Mrs P made to the loan. Creation should pay 8% simple 
interest per year on these repayments. The interest to run from the dates Mrs P 
made the repayments to the date of settlement.

Refund the money Mrs P paid for the two experts reports. Creation should pay 8% 
simple interest per year on these refunds. The interest to run from the date Mrs P 
paid for the reports to the date of settlement.

Arrange for the sofa to be picked up from Mrs P’s home. This should be done at a 
time that is convenient for both Mrs P and Creation. But only Creation must pay the 
removal costs.
Ref: DRN0014969
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2015.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0014969
