K821x#14
complaint
Miss G complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold her loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss G took out the PPI with a loan in June 2007. Creation and Miss G agreed that the sale 
took place by telephone. Miss G said that she was advised to take out the PPI, but Creation 
said that it didn’t offer advice in this case. Miss G said that she only took out the policy 
because she thought it was required with the loan. 
Miss G borrowed £8,000 over 48 months to consolidate what she owed on some credit cards 
and her overdraft. The PPI cost £1,646.61, and, as it was a single premium policy this 
amount was added to the loan and interest charged on it. The policy provided life, 
hospitalisation and personal accident cover for Miss G. 
Our adjudicator thought that Creation hadn’t told Miss G she had a choice about taking out 
the PPI. He also didn’t think it properly explained how much the PPI would cost, or that if she 
cancelled the policy early she wouldn’t have received a proportionate refund of the premium. 
Our adjudicator didn’t think Miss G would have bought the policy if she’d known all of this. 
So he upheld the complaint.
Creation disagreed. It said the sales script and loan agreement made clear the policy was 
optional. And the paperwork it sent to Miss G also explained how much the policy cost and 
the cancellation terms.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss G’s complaint. I’ve explained my reasons below. 

Creation effectively sold the policy to Miss G by telephone. So I think she would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on the documents she received 
afterwards. But the sales script that Creation said would have been used during the call 
didn’t make it clear that Miss G had a choice about buying the policy. 

The script was short. It didn’t tell the salesperson to explain clearly that the policy was 
optional, or to obtain Miss G’s consent to add it to her loan. Although the script said that 
the loan repayments should have been quoted with and without PPI, it isn’t clear how 
these quotes would have been explained, or what Miss G was told. 

The brief mention of cancellation rights in the script wasn’t enough to make Miss G 
aware she had a choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given her the 
confidence to cancel the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told her she had a 
choice about whether to buy it. 
Ref: DRN0750148
2

I’ve also kept in mind that Miss G was consolidating other borrowing. Her circumstances 
make me think it’s quite possible that she could have wanted to repay the loan early. So I 
think the cancellation terms would have been important to her – especially as she 
wouldn’t have received a proportionate refund of the premium if she had cancelled the 
PPI early. 

I can see that Miss G ticked a box and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But 
that didn’t describe the PPI as optional, and it looks as though the agreement was 
marked up when it was sent to her, to show that she had to tick the box and sign. And by 
then the PPI looked like an integral part of the loan. The agreement didn’t say what 
would happen if Miss G didn’t tick and sign. And although the very last sentence on the 
statement of price – a separate document - said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan to 
buy the policy, this could easily have been overlooked. 

The script didn’t properly disclose the policy costs. The credit agreement did set out the 
single premium (£1,646.61) and the total cost of the PPI. But it didn’t set out the interest 
(£515.43) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to expect Miss G to work 
out that figure for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about 
the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement. 

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where I think Miss G would have expected it to be.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and it might have helped Miss G to better understand what the policy was 
costing her. 
Overall I don’t think Miss G would have bought the policy if she had understood she had a 
choice, and had known how much it was going to cost her (including if she cancelled it), 
compared to the amount of the loan and what she was paying for it. So I uphold Miss G’s 
complaint. 
fair compensation
Miss G should be put back in the position she would now be in if she had taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI ran for their full term. So Creation 
should:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Miss G because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Miss G had taken out 
the loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Miss G actually paid, and paying her the 
difference; and

paying Miss G simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Miss G setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
Ref: DRN0750148
3
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Miss G needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Miss G should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Miss 
G and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Miss G’s complaint. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2014.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0750148
