K820x#11
complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold two single premium payment protection insurance 
(“PPI”) policies by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) taken out in connection with 
two separate personal loans which were arranged on the same date in 2006. The loans and 
the PPI each had a term of three years. Under the arrangements, 12 months’ free credit was 
offered, so the loan and the PPI repayments were effectively deferred for 12 months. 
During this “special offer” period, the PPI policies offered life cover.
background
The adjudicator concluded that the complaint should be rejected. Mr S does not agree with 
the adjudicator’s view and so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above but, in reaching my decision, 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
We have a well-established general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, which is 
published on our website. This involves a three-stage process in which we consider:

whether, in giving any advice, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the products 
it recommended were suitable for Mr S’s needs; 

whether Creation gave Mr S information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurances 
he was buying; and

if Creation did something wrong when selling the policies, whether Mr S would have 
done anything differently – ie not taken them out – if it had not done so.
In this case, I am making no findings on whether or not the PPI policies were mis-sold. 
This is because, from the evidence I have seen, no premiums were ever paid by Mr S on the 
PPI policies. This means that Mr S has not suffered any financial loss. This in turn means 
that no compensation is due to him.
As I have already indicated, Mr S took out two loans with Creation on the same date. 
He took out the single premium PPI policies at the same time. 
Under the terms of the two loan agreements, if Mr S paid in full for the goods by the end of 
what was called the special offer date, the loans would be interest free and no payments of 
PPI on either of the policies would be payable. 
Creation has provided us with evidence – screenshots from its internal systems – which 
show that Mr S settled both of his loans in full a number of months before his special offer 
period came to an end. The result of this is that he never paid any premiums on the PPI 
policies. So, even if the PPI policies were mis-sold (an issue on which I make no findings), 
Mr S has not suffered any financial loss as a result of the arrangements. This means that his 
complaint cannot succeed.
 
Ref: DRN0361400
2
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr S’s complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0361400
