K821x#12
summary of complaint
This complaint is about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in conjunction with a loan in 2008. Mr M believes Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
mis-sold him the policy.
my findings
I have carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have also taken into 
account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the 
policy was sold. In essence, the questions I need to consider are whether:

Creation gave Mr M information that was clear, fair and not misleading, in order to put 
him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was 
buying; and

if any advice or recommendation was given, the product was suitable for Mr M’s needs, 
or, if it was not suitable, Creation pointed this out to him.
If I conclude that there were shortcomings in either of the above, this will not necessarily 
result in me finding in favour of Mr M. Instead, I will consider whether Mr M more likely than 
not acted differently as a result, i.e. whether, but for failings on the part of Creation, he would 
not have taken out the insurance.
It appears that that this policy was sold during a telephone conversation between Mr M and 
a sales representative. Mr M has stated in his PPI questionnaire that he cannot recall 
whether or not he was given a recommendation to take out the policy. Creation has told us 
that this was an information only sale, and the available documentation from the point of sale 
does not appear to contradict this. Based on the evidence available to me, I am persuaded 
that the business did not give a recommendation in this case, and so I have not considered 
Creation’s duties in relation to an advised sale. 
I have, however, considered whether Creation gave Mr M sufficient clear and fair information 
to ensure he was in a position to make an informed choice about the policy. In this case, 
I am not persuaded that Creation met Mr M’s information needs, and I find it more likely than 
not that, had it done so, Mr M would not have purchased the policy.
I say this because the PPI policy which Mr M purchased did not pay a pro-rata refund. If 
cancelled early, only a limited amount of the single premium amount would have been 
refunded, meaning that the cover was effectively more expensive if the policy was cancelled 
part way through the term. This significantly limited Mr M’s flexibility should he subsequently 
wish to settle the loan early or cancel the policy part way through the loan term.
Creation has provided a copy of a call script that it has told us would have been in use at the 
point of sale. I note that this call script indicates that, in reference to the early cancellation 
terms, customer would have been told “You have a statutory right to cancel the Payment 
Protection Insurance at no cost to you for up to 30 days from the date your agreement 
commences. If you decide to cancel after this period you will only be entitled to a partial 
refund of the original premium.” Unfortunately, as it appears that a recording of the sales 
conversation is not available, it is not possible to confirm whether or not this call script was 
followed in this case. However, even if it was followed, I am not persuaded that being told he 
Ref: DRN0105456
2
would “only be entitled to a partial refund of the original premium” would have been sufficient 
for Mr M to understand how any refund would be calculated, or that the refund would not be 
pro-rata.
I have reviewed the policy information that Creation has told us was provided to Mr M 
following the telephone conversation. Whilst I accept that the policy summary document did 
contain a table setting out the percentage of the premium that would be refunded after 
specific time periods had elapsed, absolute figures were not provided and there was no 
illustration or example showing what a refund calculation might have looked like in practice. 
Furthermore, the table appears at the bottom of the second page of a document written in 
closely worded text, and is not accompanied by a highlighted, clear warning that the rebate 
is not proportionate. I accept that the policy document does make a clear statement on this 
matter, saying “This refund is not calculated on a proportionate basis”, but this does not 
appear until the eighteenth page of a lengthy document, again written in closely worded text. 
Furthermore, as neither of these documents was signed by Mr M it is not possible to 
determine how and when they were given to him, if he received them at all. In any case, 
I find it likely that Mr M would have attached at least as much importance to what he was told 
by the adviser during the conversation in which the policy was discussed than to the 
associated documentation. Consequently, I can see how Mr M’s information needs may not 
have been met on this point.
I am also persuaded that it is more likely than not that Mr M suffered detriment as a result of 
this. Had the sales representative ensured he clearly understood the policy cancellation 
terms, I am unable to safely conclude he would have gone ahead with the policy. I say this 
because it appears that Mr M had a history of settling loans early, and he has told us that he 
took out three loans of five years each between the period of 1996 and 2005, each of which 
was settled early, and two further car loans, the first of which was refinanced by the second. 
I have seen no evidence to suggest that, at the time of taking out the loan and purchasing 
the policy, Mr M had any intention to vary this pattern of borrowing.
Taking everything into consideration, I am persuaded that Mr M would more likely than not 
have considered it plausible that he would want to settle the loan before the end of the term 
(as it turns out he did), and thus would have been unwilling to take out an inflexible 
PPI policy had the cancellation terms been fully explained to him.
In summary, it seems to me that Mr M would not have been sufficiently attracted by the 
benefits offered by this particular policy to have taken it out if he had been given full 
information about the cover. I therefore conclude that Creation failed to inform Mr M 
properly, and that Mr M was disadvantaged as a result. It follows that I find this policy 
mis-sold.
fair compensation
From the evidence I have seen in this case, it seems to me most likely that, if Mr M had not 
purchased this PPI policy, he would still have taken out the loan. Therefore, he should be 
placed back in the position he would have been in had the PPI policy not been sold. It is my 
understanding that the policy has been cancelled and the loan has been settled.
Ref: DRN0105456
3
I require Creation to: 
(A) work out and repay the extra payment paid by Mr M to settle the loan 
because PPI was added to it at the start, by:

calculating the amount Mr M would have paid to settle the loan if he 
had taken it out without PPI (including any interest and charges, such 
as a penalty for early repayment)

subtracting that amount from what was actually needed to settle the 
loan, and paying him the difference

adding interest (simple, not compound) on the difference between the 
two amounts, at the rate of 8% a year, from the date the loan was 
settled to the date the redress is paid†.
(B) work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr M while the loan 
and PPI policy were active, by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr M 
had taken out the loan without PPI

subtracting those payments from the amount Mr M actually paid, and 
paying him the difference

paying Mr M interest (simple, not compound) on each of these 
amounts at the rate of 8% a year, from the date each payment was 
made to the date the redress is paid†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr M when the 
policy was cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
(C) write to Mr M to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A) 
and (B).
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation in Mr M’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate tax 
from the compensation, and Mr M’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax 
position can be found on our website. Creation and Mr M should contact HM Revenue and 
Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint, and I require Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay him compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress set out above.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0105456
