K820x#13
complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has not accepted his claim for 
a refund or replacement of two sofas that he bought. He believes that these were not fit for 
purpose when he bought them.
background
In March 2014 Mr L bought some furniture which was delivered in May. This included one 
two-seater and a three-seater sofa both covered in pale-coloured leather. Within a couple of 
months he complained that these were marked and dirty. Both the supplier and Creation did 
not agree so Mr L brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator told Mr L that he did not feel there was sufficient evidence to show that the 
sofas were not in a satisfactory condition when they were purchased. The supplier agreed to 
arrange an independent report to be carried out. This found that marks on the sofas were 
easily removable. As this confirmed our adjudicator’s view, he told Mr L that he could not 
recommend upholding his complaint.
Mr L asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L’s complaint is that the sofas he bought were not satisfactory quality when they were 
sold. If this were the case, they would not meet the requirements of the Sale of Goods 
Act 1979. As the terms of this legislation are implied terms when something is sold under a 
finance agreement, it would be fair to hold Creation liable if I consider the sofas were not 
satisfactory quality.
I believe that the main piece of evidence in this case is the independent report completed in 
February 2015. It would be difficult for me to ignore its conclusions which are clear: the 
marks on the sofas were “not a fault with the leather”. I am satisfied therefore that the sofas 
were in a satisfactory condition when Mr L bought them.
In their evidence, Mr L and his partner told us the claims made by the salesman when they 
bought the sofas. Essentially he said that “you can’t buy better anywhere else”. I can see 
why Mr L believes the sofas were misrepresented. However I don’t agree. I believe that the 
salesman’s statements are the sort that nobody would normally rely upon when making 
decisions to buy. Partly because they are so obviously not true.
I can understand why Mr L and his partner are so frustrated. They’ve found the sofas more 
difficult to keep clean than they had anticipated and I appreciate how upsetting they have 
found this. However I do not believe that it would be fair to hold Creation liable. I also note 
that the independent report found that “wet and dry techniques” easily removed the marks.
my final decision
For the reasons stated above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr L’s complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
Ref: DRN0076753
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2015.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0076753
