K822x
complaint
Mrs S complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her account. In 
particular she complains that it failed to explain why it thought she still owed money on the 
account, and that it harassed her for payment.
background 
Creation took a further payment from Mrs S after she thought she had made the last direct 
debit payment on her account. So she claimed that back. But Creation then said she still 
owed that payment. She asked for an explanation but just received further demands in 
writing and a phone call seeking contact from her. She did ring back but did not complete the 
call. When she returned home after a spell away, she found a number of voicemails from 
Creation asking for contact. She then double checked her bank statements and realised the 
first payment under the agreement had been taken a month later than she thought. Creation 
says it explains the timing of the first payment in a letter in a “welcome pack” given when 
consumers buy items covered by a loan. It also says it did not get an initial letter Mrs S says 
she sent. 
Our adjudicator said that Creation had now offered her £100 in compensation which the 
adjudicator considered fair. 
Mrs S disagreed. She thought the offer was derisory and said she would accept £300. She 
found it difficult to believe Creation had not received her letter. She had not completed the 
phone call, as she had been asked to speak to a named individual so had not expected to 
have to complete security questions. She had only rung when about to leave for the airport 
because it had been implied it was urgent for her to call Creation. No effort had been made 
to compensate her for her time researching payments and corresponding with Creation or for 
the harassment she had been subjected to.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cannot be sure whether Mrs S got the letter in the welcome pack. But, as Creation has now 
accepted, understandably she might not have saved it and later referred back to the actual 
agreement - which led her to expect the first payment had been taken a month sooner than it 
was. 
I can see no obvious reason why Creation would not have received the letter Mrs S sent 
when she explained why she thought she had paid off the loan: that is correctly addressed. 
But I cannot be sure whether it arrived with Creation. Had that been received and responded 
to matters could have been resolved much more quickly. 
Again the situation could have been clarified when Mrs S rang Creation. I do not think it was 
unreasonable for Creation to expect her to answer security questions before discussing 
matters, even though she had been asked to call a named person. However I do understand 
she was short of time when she rang. When she did not complete the call, Creation should 
have responded to the request she made then to write explaining why she owed the money, 
rather than simply sending more standard letters and making multiple phone calls. But it 
sounds as though most of those happened while Mrs S was away: Mrs S mentioned six 
Ref: DRN0060527
2
messages being left, though Creation said it made 22 calls. The issue over payment was 
resolved shortly afterwards when Mrs S realised (after checking her bank records) that the 
first payment had been a month later than she had thought. I can see that having to check 
the records would be annoying, but need not have taken a long time.
In all the circumstances I think Creation’s offer of £100 is fair and reasonable, assuming that 
it will also ensure that Mrs S’s credit record is not adversely affected by these events. She 
clearly was willing and able to keep up to date with her account.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:
-
pay Mrs S £100; and
-
(if it has not done this already) ensure no adverse information is recorded on her 
credit record regarding this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2015.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0060527
