K821x#12
complaint
Mrs R complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold her loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a loan in July 2009. Creation said the sale took place during 
a telephone call and that it didn’t advise Mrs R to take out the cover. The monthly cost of the 
policy was £27.54. Mrs R said that she only took out the PPI because she thought she had 
to.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had given Mrs R a choice 
about buying the policy. 
Creation disagreed. It said the telephone sales script and loan agreement made clear the 
policy was optional. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs R’s complaint.
Creation sent us a recording of a call between a salesperson and Mrs R. But this was not the 
call where the sale took place – it was a second call. The salesperson confirmed that Mrs R 
had taken PPI, and asked her whether, in the first call, the salesperson had read over the 
payment protection script. Mrs R said that they had not. 
In this second call, the salesperson then read out some of the PPI script. It did mention 
‘optional’ cover at the start. But this passing reference was followed immediately by a lot of 
information about what the policy did and didn’t cover. So Mrs R could easily have missed it. 
The second salesperson didn’t ask Mrs R for her clear and explicit consent to add the PPI to 
the loan, even though Mrs R said that she hadn’t had the details of the cover in the first call. 
There was clearly some confusion in the second call about what information Mrs R had been 
given (or not given). I don’t know how (or even if) the PPI was explained during the first call, 
because I don’t have a recording of it. But I don’t think that the content of the second call 
was enough to make it clear to Mrs R that she had a choice about taking the PPI. 
I can see that Mrs R ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But although the 
PPI was described as optional, the agreement seems to have been highlighted and marked 
up to say that Mrs R should tick the box and sign for the PPI. And although the very last 
sentence at the bottom of the statement of price said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan to 
buy the policy, this wasn’t in a prominent location. Again it could easily be overlooked.
Ref: DRN0208814
2
Overall I’m not satisfied that Creation made it clear that Mrs R had a choice about taking out 
the policy. And I don’t think Mrs R would have bought the policy if she had understood she 
had a choice. So I uphold Mrs R’s complaint.
fair compensation
Mrs R should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. 
So Creation should refund all PPI premiums paid by Mrs R, together with interest at 8% per 
year simple† on each premium from the date of payment to the date compensation is paid. 
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs R’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0208814
