K822x
complaint
Miss D’s unhappy with the way a Creation Consumer Finance Ltd finance agreement has 
been handled.   
background 
Miss D bought a piece of furniture with a fixed sum loan from Creation. But the supplier 
didn’t update her address with Creation. As a result she says she didn’t receive the 
documentation Creation sent her. She also says she hasn’t received the full 12 months 
interest free period promised to her by the sales advisor. She wants a refund of some 
interest, her credit file amended and compensation.
Creation said in its final response that Miss D would’ve been given a copy of the agreement 
at the point of sale. And a reminder letter was sent out to Miss D at the address notified at 
the point of sale. The special offer date was also set out in the agreement. It’s Miss D’s 
responsibility to tell it if she’d changed address. It’s applied the interest correctly as she 
didn’t pay off the loan before the date specified in the offer.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be partly upheld. She said:

Miss D says she wasn’t given any documentation about the finance agreement at the 
point of sale. And she was told the agreement would be sent to her in the post. She 
was also told by the supplier that it’d update her address with Creation. Miss D was 
in contact with the supplier for some months after this about issues with the condition 
of her furniture.

When she received nothing in the post she’d have expected Miss D to have queried 
why she hadn’t received a copy of the finance agreement. And at a minimum to have 
asked who the agreement was with so she’d know who to make the payment to. The 
supplier also didn’t contact Creation.

Creation’s system notes show the welcome pack was posted to Miss D on the date 
the finance agreement was approved. It was sent to her previous address. Miss D 
says she didn’t receive it despite not moving until about a month later. But she can’t 
hold Creation responsible for what’s gone missing in the post.

The welcome pack set out the date the special offer ended and this was before the 
first payment date. So, she can’t say Creation has made an error.

Miss D’s also unhappy with the way Creation’s dealt with this complaint. It attempted 
to contact her but her contact numbers didn’t work. Even so it should’ve done more. 
Creation’s offered to pay Miss D £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 

She can’t fairly recommend Creation should write off any interest on the loan. But its 
offer of £50 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Miss D doesn’t agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says in summary that 
£50 compensation isn’t enough. Her credit file has been adversely affected causing her 
other issues. She wants £50 for each call she made or for Creation to honour the original 
settlement figure.
Ref: DRN0065164
2
Creation has offered a further £25 compensation as it accepts it should’ve logged her 
complaint earlier than it did.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation says Miss D would’ve been given a copy of the finance agreement at the point of 
sale but she says she wasn’t.
 
Creation’s agreement, welcome pack and reminder letter clearly set out the special offer 
repayment date and say when interest will be payable. And it’s shown it sent them out to 
Miss D at the address she supplied when she bought the furniture.
It’s unfortunate if Miss D didn’t receive Creation’s communications but she appears to have 
still been at her original address when the early item was sent. And as the adjudicator says I 
can’t hold Creation responsible if it went astray in the post.
I also agree it would’ve been reasonable for Miss D to have raised the lack of receipt of the 
agreement with the supplier during her continuing contact with it in the months after she 
bought the furniture.
Taking everything into account I think Creation was entitled to apply interest and take the 
monthly payments as it’s done as Miss D didn’t repay the amount required in its special offer 
by the required specified date. It’s also obliged to accurately record on her credit file the 
management of her account, as it’s done. 
Overall, although I recognise Miss D’s frustration, I don’t think I can fairly or reasonably 
require Creation to refund any interest or amend her credit file as she’d like. I also don’t think 
I can require it to now accept any particular settlement amount for the account. 
But its offer to pay £75 compensation for the way it’s dealt with this complaint is fair. And I 
don’t see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Miss D £75 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2017.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0065164
