K821x#14
complaint
Mr T complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold his loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr T took out a PPI policy with a loan in April 2009. Creation said the sale took place during 
a telephone call and that it didn’t advise Mr T to take out the cover. Mr T said that he only 
took out the PPI because he thought he had to.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained what 
the PPI would cost.
Creation disagreed. It said the paperwork it sent to Mr T set out the cost.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr T’s complaint.
I have concerns about whether Creation clearly told Mr T that he had a choice about whether 
to buy this policy at all. There isn’t a call recording. The call script that Creation said would 
have been followed only gave one brief mention of the policy being optional. It didn’t require 
Mr T’s explicit consent to add the PPI to the loan. And the credit agreement he received 
afterwards also didn’t make clear that the policy was optional, particularly if it hadn’t been 
explained properly during the phone call. It also looks as though the agreement was 
highlighted and marked up to say that Mr T should tick the box and sign for the PPI.
 
However, I don’t need to reach a finding on that. I’ve decided to uphold this complaint 
because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also failed to properly explain to Mr T how 
much the policy cost.
I can’t see anything in the call script that required the salesperson to disclose any of the 
policy costs. It only said that the premium would be added to the loan. 
The credit agreement did set out the single premium (£1,827.56) and the total cost of the 
PPI. But it didn’t set out the interest (£875.45) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was 
reasonable to expect Mr T to work out that figure for himself. He was entitled to expect all 
the important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement. 
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy summary 
– a separate document. It wasn’t easy to find, or where I think Mr T would expect it to be. 
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would have been 
good practice and it might have helped Mr T to better understand what the policy was 
costing him.  
Ref: DRN0434854
2
Overall, I don’t think Mr T would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him, compared to the amount of the loan and what he was 
paying for it. So I uphold Mr T’s complaint.
fair compensation
Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was higher than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have done each month. So he needs to get back the extra he 
has paid. 
So, Creation should:

work out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI;

add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†);

if Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what Mr T 
received from what’s due to him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2015.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0434854
