K822x
complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background 
In early 2014 Mrs S was contacted by a company called I-Power Systems Ltd (“I-Power”) 
who sold her a solar panel system and arranged for its supply and installation. 
The cost of the system was £9,615.  Mrs S paid a deposit of £100 and I-Power arranged for 
the balance to be paid by way of a 10-year loan arranged with Creation.  With interest the 
total amount payable is £15,068.80.
Under s.75 a finance company can be liable to the same extent to the supplier for any mis-
representations and breaches of contract.  I-Power has gone into liquidation and so Mrs S, 
represented by a claims management company (“CMC”), made a s.75 claim to Creation.
Mrs S says the solar panel system was misrepresented to her.  She was told at the time of 
sale that the system would be ‘self-funding’ and the financial benefits generated by the 
system would cover the cost of the loan payments.  But that’s not what has happened.
Initially Creation made an offer to reduce the loan by 25% and there were a number of 
issues raised about whether the complaint could be considered under this Service’s 
jurisdiction.  
One of our investigators set out why the complaint falls within the jurisdiction of this Service.  
The complaint has moved on and Creation has accepted that our Service can review things 
– so I won’t be repeating that here now.
Creation accepted that Mrs S was told the system would be self-funding and hadn’t provided 
sufficient benefits to cover the loan payments.  It carried out a calculation based upon the 
benefits Mrs S had received, and an estimate of the future benefits the solar panels would 
provide.  It said Mrs S would likely receive £9,239.43 in financial benefit over the 10 year 
term, and offered to adjust the loan to reflect that.  It also took account of the fact Mrs N had 
stopped making payments to the loan and has fallen into arrears as a result.
Based upon it’s calculation Creation gave Mrs S four options of how the loan could be 
restructured by changing the payment amounts or loan term.  The investigator reviewed 
Creation’s offer and suggested it was a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
Mrs S disagreed with the offer and calculation.  She made several points, but in summary 
said that Creation’s calculation hadn’t been based upon accurate figures and the system 
was not producing the level of benefit assumed by the offer.  She requested that the 
calculation be adjusted, and pointed out that Creation had instructed the collection of monies 
for arrears on the loan whilst everything was in dispute.
Creation felt that it’s offer was fair and in line with the approach usually recommended by 
this Service.  But it did agree to put a hold on the collection of monies whilst the issues were 
in dispute.
Ref: DRN0358478
2
The CMC representing Mrs S stated that she’d had an inspection of the solar panel system 
which said part of the reason the system is underperforming is because the inverter needs 
replacing.  It also said any offer from Creation should be calculated year on year based upon 
actual benefits Mrs S receives and so any offer now should not be in full and final settlement 
of matters.
The investigator said that he considers it appropriate for the Creation’s calculation to 
estimate future performance in order to bring finality to matters in line with our Service’s 
general approach.  He said the offer would be in full and final settlement of Mrs S’ complaint 
about misrepresentation at the time of sale and the restructuring of the loan to make the 
system self-funding.  But he also noted that Mrs S could make a separate claim to Creation 
for any fault with the system – including the repair or replacement of the inverter if required.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed for an ombudsman to 
review afresh and make a decision to resolve things.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I’ve reached broadly the 
same conclusion as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
Creation has accepted the solar panel system was mis-represented by I-Power and that Mrs 
S was told it would be self-funding.  So, the key issue for me to decide is what it should do to 
put things right, and whether the offer put forward to Mr S is fair and reasonable.
The calculation Creation carried out took account of the financial benefits Mrs S has 
received to date, and an estimation of the benefits she’ll receive through the remaining term 
of the loan.  Those benefits come from her reduction in electricity bills and receipt of Feed-in-
Tariff (“FIT”) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
This Service considers what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of each individual 
complaint.  There is no exact science to deciding that, but in cases where a loan needs to be 
re-structured to make the system self-funding, our approach is generally that it’s reasonable 
to use an estimation of future benefits.
I note the CMC has raised concerns that the system is not performing effectively and it says 
to use an estimate of future power generation would make the calculation to put things right 
inaccurate and disadvantage Mrs S.  I’m also aware Mrs S arranged for an inspection of the 
system and understand it would require a new inverter to perform more efficiently.
As the investigator explained previously, a defect with the solar panel equipment itself didn’t 
form part of this complaint.  But it is something that Mrs S can make a separate claim for to 
Creation – and it’s confirmed that it will honour the system’s guarantee.
In this decision I’m trying to put things right based upon the misrepresentation made to Mrs 
S at the time of sale.  I consider it reasonable to assume the system equipment is 
functioning correctly, and for any fault which has arisen or occurs in the future that Mrs S will 
make a separate claim to Creation.
Ref: DRN0358478
3
So, taking account of the overall situation I’m satisfied Creation has appropriately calculated 
what the cost of the system would need to have been to make it self-funding based upon the 
financial benefits Mrs S will likely receive over the term of the loan.
Having reviewed the four options of how that calculation could be implemented into 
restructuring the loan which have been offered to Mrs S, I’m satisfied that’s a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving matters.  All parties have been presented the offer and different 
options for implementation, and have commented upon them, so I won’t set them out again 
here in full.   
I realise that Mrs S stopped making payments to the loan whilst this complaint has been 
ongoing.  But I don’t think that should have any adverse effect on Mrs S’ credit file, so 
Creation will need to ensure that any record of missed payments is updated to reflect that.
The CMC has requested the resolution of this matter should not be in full and final 
settlement.  But I consider it’s appropriate it should be in full and final settlement of matters 
relating to the mis-sale and misrepresentation of the solar panels.  However, as set out 
above, Mrs S will be able to raise any new claim that arises relating to the system breaking 
down which would be covered under the guarantee provided by I-Power when it supplied the 
system.
I also note that as part of its settlement Creation has offered Mrs S an addition sum of £100 
to reflect the trouble and upset she’s experienced as a result of these issues.  I also consider 
that a fair amount in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S’ complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.  
I consider the offer of settlement made to Mrs S to put things right is fair and reasonable and 
leave it for her to decide which option of implementation to choose.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0358478
