K820x#14
complaint
Mrs A is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) as she’s been charged 
interest having not paid off her balance before a ‘buy now pay later’ promotional period 
ended.
Mrs A is represented in her complaint by Mr A, though I’ll mostly refer to her throughout as 
it’s her complaint.
background
Mrs A entered into an agreement with Creation on 24 May 2017. She did so in order to 
facilitate the purchase of goods through a third party supplier. The purchase price was 
£178.96 and there was a promotional offer attached. The terms of the offer were that if the 
balance was repaid in full within six months – the ‘buy now pay later’ (BNPL) period – she 
wouldn’t be charged any interest. After that date interest would be charged and monthly 
payments would have to be made until the balance was settled.
Mrs A called Creation on 5 December 2017 to make payment to the account. She was told 
that a direct debit was already in place to take payment on or after 7 December 2017. So no 
other payment was made that day. 
It was at this point that Mrs A discovered that the BNPL period had ended and she was 
being charged interest on her purchase. She objected to this right away as she hadn’t 
realised the BNPL period was coming to an end. She thought if she made payment before 
7 December she’d be ok. That’s because she’d had a letter which told her that was when the 
first payment was due. Creation explained that wasn’t the case and interest was due.
Mrs A explained she hadn’t received account statements notifying her of the end of the 
BNPL period. Creation said it had sent them and so it wasn’t prepared to remove the 
interest. Mrs A raised a complaint but Creation’s decision remained unchanged. She then 
brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He could see Creation had sent the 
statements and they did warn of the end of the BNPL period. He said as payment hadn’t 
been made by 24 November 2017 he couldn’t recommend the interest be waived.
He did ask Creation if there was anything else it was able to do, including converting the 
interest into an administration fee. Creation said it wouldn’t change anything and the 
investigator couldn’t alter his opinion. 
Mrs A remained unhappy with the outcome and so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I’m not upholding it. I’ll 
explain why.
I can see why this complaint is so important to Mrs A and indeed Mr A too. It’s not the money 
that’s particularly important to them here, as demonstrated by their willingness to pay an 
Ref: DRN0318061
2
administration charge. It’s because they have personal beliefs that mean they shouldn’t pay 
interest such as they’ve been charged here.
I empathise with the position Mrs A finds herself in. But in order to say Creation must doing 
something differently I must first be satisfied that they’ve done something wrong. I can’t see 
that they have here which is why I won’t be telling them to alter their position in this case.
It’s clear to me that the BNPL period ended in November and the balance wasn’t settled in 
time. The question is whether Creation did enough to notify Mrs A of the terms of the BNPL 
period. I’m satisfied it did.
I can see Creation did send Mrs A statements and that these did warn of the BNPL period 
coming to an end. Mrs A has said she didn’t receive those statements and I accept that was 
the case. I also accept she had every intention of settling the balance before the end of the 
BNPL period. But that doesn’t mean Creation must change the terms of the BNPL offer. The 
statements were sent using the correct details. Where a business is able to demonstrate as 
much, I’m satisfied it’s done all it needs to get the statements to the customer and they aren’t 
responsible for the non-receipt of them. I know both Mrs A and Mr A feel strongly on this 
point and they believe Creation should act differently when statements haven’t been 
received. But I can’t require them to do so. Mr and Mrs A have discussed this with Creation, 
as we have. But it isn’t prepared to change its position on a goodwill basis either.
Mrs A also contends that the letter she received about the payment date is misleading. 
That’s because it states when the first payment is due and the date given is 7 December. 
But this doesn’t change things for me. 
The letter is accurate in that it properly informs Mrs A of when her first payment is due. It is 
correct that her first contractual monthly payment of £9.81 needed to be made by 
7 December. But that’s separate to the expiration of the BNPL period. That ended six 
months after the purchase date, on 24 November. I can see why that may have caused 
some confusion, and perhaps Mrs A expected more contact from Creation about the ending 
of the BNPL period, but I can’t say it needed to do more here.
my final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2018.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0318061
