K821x#14
complaint
Mrs H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has not refunded money 
she paid for an alarm system. The company providing maintenance and monitoring for the 
alarm stopped trading in 2011.
Mrs H is represented by a claims company.
background
In April 2009 Mrs H took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation for an alarm system. 
The total package included monitoring and maintenance of the alarm. In 2011, the provider 
stopped trading. By that stage Mrs H had paid off her loan in full.
In 2014 Mrs H was contacted by a claims company who told her that she may have a claim 
against the finance provider. On her behalf, they submitted a claim to Creation that Mrs H 
had been misled into getting the alarm fitted.
Creation did not believe the contract included a cost for the alarm monitoring and 
maintenance. They turned down Mrs H’s claim. Her claims company therefore brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator told Creation that she considered that the total amount payable included the 
monitoring and maintenance of the alarm system. Therefore under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, Creation is liable for the breach of the contract by the supplier. 
She asked them to refund Mrs H money that she paid over and above the monthly 
transactions up to March 2011, when the supplier ceased trading. They should add 8% 
interest to that amount along with £100 compensation. This was for the inconvenience 
caused to Mrs H as there has been a delay in getting the case resolved.
Creation never responded to our adjudicator. This case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that, under a specific set of 
circumstances, a consumer may claim a refund of money paid to a supplier by a credit 
provider. However there can only be a valid claim under section 75 if there is sufficient 
evidence to show that the supplier:

said something about the goods or service being sold that wasn’t true; and

this is what made the customer enter into the contract; or

had broken the terms of the contract.
That means that I can only hold Creation responsible for what the supplier did if the 
company misled Mrs H and this is why she entered into the contract. Or if I believe that the 
supplier didn’t meet the terms of the contract.
Ref: DRN0053138
2
There is no dispute that the original supplier of the alarm system ceased trading in March 
2011: just two years after Mrs H took out the loan. Therefore there is no way that they were 
able to provide her with monitoring and maintenance. I can hold Creation liable for this loss 
of service if I believe the monitoring and maintenance was part of Mrs H’s contract.
Creation provided a copy of the loan agreement which showed that Mrs H took out a loan for 
£4,750 for an “alarm system and installation only”. They feel that she is receiving 
maintenance and monitoring as a free add-on and they have no liability under section 75. 
I do not agree.
Mrs H was provided with marketing material. This is very clear about “24 hour monitoring 
day in, day out”. In addition she has an “ultimate unconditional guarantee”. And in case this 
wasn’t sufficient, her agreement with the supplier states that she’s paying a total package 
price of £4,850.
I am in no doubt that getting “10 years free monitoring” was conditional on Mrs H paying 
£4,850 as the monitoring and maintenance set-up fee. I believe that the monitoring and 
maintenance is a central part of what she was buying. I can certainly see that this is what 
attracted her to buying from this supplier in the first place.
And it’s worth adding, that she bought another alarm system with a monitoring package once 
she wasn’t able to get the service she first bought.
Overall I am satisfied that a breach of contract took place when the supplier was unable to 
provide her with maintenance and monitoring. Therefore I can consider Creation liable under 
section 75.
I broadly agree with our adjudicator and what she considered was fair. Creation should 
refund Mrs H any money that she paid over and above what would have been her monthly 
payments for the period May 2009 – the date of Mrs H’s first payment – to March 2011. 
Mrs H settled her loan early in 2010. Mrs H’s records show that she paid Creation a total of 
£6,147.97. Her monthly payments were £86.46. She would have paid £1,988.58 over those 
23 months. Creation should refund her £4,159.39 taking into account her early settlement. 
8% interest should be added to that amount.
I am concerned that Creation never responded to our adjudicator. If they had, this case 
would have been resolved earlier. I agree that this has caused Mrs H further inconvenience. 
I consider it fair and reasonable that they pay Mrs H £250.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mrs H’s complaint. I instruct 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to take the following actions in full and final settlement:

Refund Mrs H £4,159.39 as redress for the breach of contract;

Add interest of 8% simple from the date Mrs H paid off her loan, 23 September 2010, 
to the settlement date; and

Pay her £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2015.
Ref: DRN0053138
3
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0053138
