K820x#11
complaint
Mrs L complains Creation Consumer Finance Limited was wrong to charge interest for a late 
payment - when it should have taken the money by direct debit. She is represented by a 
family member.
background
In 2013 Mrs L bought electrical goods under a fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Creation. She paid a deposit and deferred payment of the four figure final balance until 
May 2014. The loan agreement included a direct debit authority. So Mrs L expected Creation 
to use that to take the final payment from her account by 9 May 2014. 
When Creation hadn’t taken the payment by 10 May she rang to ask why. But it said Mrs L 
should have paid by 2 May 2014 - and charged her £68 interest. Mrs L considers this should 
be refunded as the money for the payment was in her account - but Creation didn’t use the 
direct debit to take it. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint should be upheld. He’s satisfied the onus 
was on Mrs L to make the payment by 2 May 2014. But she didn’t contact Creation until 
eight days later. And it was entitled to charge interest for late payments. So he wasn’t 
persuaded Creation had done anything wrong. 
Mrs L disagrees. She says she was misled by the retailer she bought the goods from and the 
direct debit authority. And she would have made the payment by alternative means if she 
had known Creation wasn’t going to use that - so she shouldn’t have to pay interest.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have come to the same conclusions 
as our adjudicator for much the same reasons. 
I understand Mrs L’s frustration that Creation didn’t take its final payment in the way she 
expected. I can see she had money in her account - and I have no doubt she intended to 
make the payment on time. 
Mrs L had two repayment options available to her under the loan agreement – monthly 
instalments or a single lump sum. She chose the second option - referred to as the “special 
offer date” payment. I realise Mrs L believed this had to be made by the 9 May 2014. But the 
loan agreement says the special offer date payment is due on 2 May 2014 - the final 
payment was due on 9 May if the loan was repaid by instalments. So I’m satisfied Mrs L’s 
final payment was due by 2 May 2014. 
I appreciate Mrs L thought Creation was going to take the payment from her account on the 
due date – because she had set up a direct debit. The loan agreement doesn’t specify a 
payment method for the special offer date payment. But Creation says it sent Mrs L a letter 
in April 2014 telling her how to make the final payment. 
Ref: DRN0973578
2
It can’t provide a copy of the actual letter it sent - as these are computer generated and 
individual copies aren’t retained. But Creation has computer records confirming that the 
standard reminder letter was sent. And, on balance, I’m satisfied it would have been.
Creation has provided a template of that letter. This says (insofar as it’s relevant) “if you wish 
to take advantage of the Special Offer Date … please make sure we receive your settlement 
payment a minimum of five working days before [2 May 2014] to ensure it clears on time. If 
we receive your settlement payment after the Special Offer Date we will charge interest…To 
make a payment please follow the steps detailed overleaf”
Three payment options are set out on the second page – by phone, on-line or by cheque - 
but direct debit isn’t included. So, even if I were to accept the retailer didn’t explain how the 
final payment had to be made when Mrs L bought the goods, I’m satisfied Creation told her 
when and how to pay after that - in April 2014. 
It follows I’m satisfied it was Mrs L’s responsibility to make sure the final payment was made 
by 2 May 2014. She didn’t contact Creation until 10 May. And it is entitled to charge interest 
for late payment. So I can’t fairly require that Creation should refund any interest. 
I understand Mrs L’s frustration at the situation she finds herself in. And I appreciate my 
decision is likely to come as a disappointment. But, like our adjudicator, I can’t reasonably 
find Creation made a mistake or order it to do more.    
my final decision
My decision is that I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN0973578
