K822x
complaint
Mr F complains that a car that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr F signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in December 
2018 to pay for a used car. The car was about six years old, had been driven for 62,413 
miles and had a price of £6,100. Mr F paid a cash deposit of £400 for the car so the amount 
of the loan was £5,700 – repayable by 60 monthly payments of £126.06.
Mr F returned the car to the dealer a few days because the engine management warning 
light was on. The dealer arranged for the car to be repaired by a garage, a sensor was 
replaced and the car was returned to Mr F. But the issue recurred so he returned the car to 
the dealer again and said that he wanted to cancel the loan agreement and reject the car. 
That was less than 30 days after he’d bought the car. 
The dealer returned the car to the garage with similar symptoms and a similar fault was 
diagnosed. But the garage says that further extensive testing found contaminated fuel. It 
says that it drained out the contaminated fuel, replaced the fuel filter and put in clean fuel 
which eliminated the problem.
Mr F complained to Creation Consumer Finance and said that he wanted to reject the car. It 
rejected his claim and said that the car had been repaired. Mr F wasn’t satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr F 
should have been able to reject the car as there was a fault with it and he asked to reject it 
within 30 days. So he recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: take 
ownership of the car; arrange for it to be collected from Mr F and for the agreement to be 
cancelled; refund the deposit with interest; reimburse two monthly instalments to recognise 
the loss of usage; pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and remove any 
adverse data on Mr F’s credit file
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It has responded to the adjudicator’s recommendations in detail and says, in 
summary, that:

there are numerous reasons as to why an engine management light may come on;

the garage confirmed that contaminated fuel had been used in the car which would 
not be grounds to reject the car;

it agrees with the dealer’s decision to not allow Mr F to reject the car and to repair it 
at no cost to him;

the initial fault was analysed by the garage and it repaired what it believed may have 
been an issue with the car; 

the garage is reputable and professional so its report on the issues with the car 
should be relied upon; and

its agreement with Mr F is a fixed sum loan agreement so it doesn’t own the car and 
it’s unable to take back ownership of it as it’s never owned the car.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN0281809
2
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F 
and to Creation Consumer Finance on 16 April 2020. In my provisional decision I said as 
follows:
“There doesn’t seem to be any dispute that the car’s engine management warning 
light was on a few days after Mr F had bought the car. He returned the car to the 
dealer and it arranged for it to be repaired by a garage. The garage replaced the gas 
temperature sensor for the diesel particulate filter and says that it road-tested the car 
and all was fine.
Mr F says that the engine management warning light came on again a few days later 
so he returned the car to the dealer and said that he wanted to reject it. That was 
less than 30 days after he’d bought the car. He also complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance and it said that he had a fixed sum loan agreement so he owned 
the car and should discuss the issues with the dealer. 
The dealer didn’t accept Mr F’s request to reject the car and returned the car to the 
garage for it to be repaired again. The garage says that the car had similar symptoms 
and a similar fault was diagnosed. But it says that further extensive testing found 
contaminated fuel. It says that it drained out the contaminated fuel, replaced the fuel 
filter and put in clean fuel which eliminated the problem.
But the sensor that the garage had replaced earlier that month had dealt with the 
issue because it said that it road-tested the car and all was fine. There was then 
another issue with the car within 30 days of Mr F buying it and he asked to reject the 
car. I consider that Mr F should have been able to reject the car at that time. But the 
dealer arranged for further repair work on the car and at that time contaminated fuel 
in the car was discovered and, amongst other things, the fuel filter was replaced. 
I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Mr F caused the 
contamination of the fuel. Whilst I accept that the car has now been repaired and that 
the fault hasn’t recurred, I consider that Mr F should have been allowed to reject in 
January 2019 when he told the dealer that he wanted to reject it and he complained 
to Creation Consumer Finance. Mr F says that the car’s current mileage is 64,330 – 
so less than 2,000 miles more than it was when the car was supplied to him. He says 
that he only used the car for the first month and since then it’s only been moved from 
time to time to stop it seizing up and to keep everything working.
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should now arrange with Mr F to take 
ownership of the car and to cancel the fixed sum loan agreement. Mr F paid a cash 
deposit of £400 for the car and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
refund that deposit to him (with interest).
The investigator recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should refund two 
monthly payments to Mr F. But he says that he’s only used the car for one month. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation 
Consumer Finance to refund to him all but the first monthly payment that the made 
under the agreement (with interest). It can keep the other payment as compensation 
for the use that he’s had from the car. 
Ref: DRN0281809
3
These events will have caused distress and inconvenience to Mr F. I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £150 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience. I also consider that it should 
remove any record of the fixed sum loan agreement from Mr F’s credit file”. 
So subject to any further representations by Mr F or Creation Consumer Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance has agreed with that outcome and Mr F has responded with 
some comments on my provisional decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’m not persuaded that 
I should change my provisional decision. 
Mr F has made some comments on my findings – but those comments don’t affect the 
outcome or the decision that I’ve recommended. As my provisional decision has been 
accepted by Creation Consumer Finance I haven’t changed my decision.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr F’s complaint and I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Arrange to take ownership of the car and for it to be collected from Mr F - both at no 
cost to him.
2.
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no further cost to Mr F.
3.
Refund to Mr F the cash deposit of £400 that he paid for the car.
4.
Refund to Mr F all but the first monthly payments that he’s made under the 
agreement.
5.
Pay interest on the amounts at 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6.
Remove all record of the agreement from Mr F’s credit file.
7.
Pay £150 to Mr F to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 5 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr F a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ref: DRN0281809
4
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0281809
