K821x#15
complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In 2014 Mrs S entered into an agreement for the supply and installation of a solar panel 
system from a company called My Planet Ltd.  The system cost £8,000 and was funded by a 
loan with Creation over a 10-year term.
Mrs S says there’s a fault with the system and it’s stopped producing energy since 2017.  
She also says My Planet misrepresented the system and she was told the financial benefits 
it would produce would cover the monthly cost of the loan.
Under s.75 a finance provider is liable to the same extent as the supplier of goods for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.  As My Planet is no longer trading, Mrs S made a 
claim against Creation.
Creation didn’t resolve the complaint and Mrs S referred her concerns to this Service.  One 
of our investigators looked into things and concluded the complaint should be upheld.  He 
said it was an implied contract term that a system of that value should continue to operate 
correctly for more than three years.  So, he recommended Creation arrange for an 
inspection to assess what is wrong with the system, and pay £100 to Mrs S for the trouble 
she’s experienced.
The investigator also explained that he couldn’t assess whether the system had been 
misrepresented whilst it is not working at all.  He said it wouldn’t be possible to assess 
whether it performs as Mrs S was told, unless it was functioning.  So, he explained that point 
would need to be re-visited after the inspection and system was working again.  
Creation disagreed with the investigator’s assessment.  It said that My Planet was only 
responsible for providing a two-year warranty, as so it couldn’t be held responsible beyond 
the retailer’s liability.  But it said if Mrs S arranged the inspection herself and the problem 
could be identified it would review things from there.
Mrs S also disagreed with the investigator.  She said:

She was told an inspection would cost £326.

She wants the system inspected independently.

It’s obvious there is a fault as the system just stopped working in 2017.

£100 trouble and upset is woefully inadequate.

She has 4 years of the loan to pay and it’s unaffordable as she only has state 
pension income.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed for a fresh review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN0633271
2
I understand there are essentially two parts to Mrs S’ complaint.  That the solar panel system 
stopped working in 2017, and that the benefits of the system were misrepresented at the 
point of sale.
It’s important that I reiterate the comments made by the investigator previously.  That is, I’m 
unable to consider whether the solar panels were misrepresented to Mrs S, as whilst the 
system doesn’t work at all, it’s not possible to assess the level of benefit it can provide – and 
so whether that would cover the loan costs.  So, in this decision I’m only deciding the fact the 
system stopped working in 2017 and how that should be put right.  If once the system is 
operational again and Mrs S wishes the issue of misrepresentation to be considered, she 
can revisit that with Creation (and our Service if required) as a separate complaint.
For Creation to be responsible under s.75 there needs to be an unbroken debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  I’m satisfied that relationship exists here, and Creation has not 
contested this point and so I won’t go into any more detail in relation to that.
Essentially, the key issue for me to decide is whether it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to 
be responsible for arranging an inspection of Mrs S’ solar panel system which is not working.
The system was installed in 2014 and Mrs S says that it stopped working three years later in 
2017.  I understand that Creation considers that it’s not responsible for any fault with the 
system that occurred after two years from installation. 
My Planet’s terms and conditions state:
“13. MP warranties installations for a 2 year period from the date of installation”.  
Creation says that as My Planet was only liable for 2 years under the terms and conditions, it 
can only be held liable to the same extent.  I understand this point and acknowledge the 
basis for its position, but I disagree.
Mrs S had purchased the solar panel system on the understanding that she’d be making 
savings overall, whilst having to pay monthly loan payments over a 10-year term.  So, I don’t 
think she’d have reasonably expected the system to fail after only 3 years.
In reaching my decision I’ve taken account of many factors including the law and good 
practice.  But ultimately, I’m deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.  I’m aware that it’s commonly more usual for similar system 
installations to provide a guarantee for a longer period – typically 10 years to match the loan 
term.  
In 2014 when the system was sold to Mrs S, the agreement was subject to the Sale of 
Goods Act 1979 (“SGA”), and that legislation has since been replaced by the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015.
Section 14(2) SGA states “Where the seller sells goods in the course of a business, there is 
an implied term that the goods supplied under contract are of satisfactory quality”.  
It follows at s.14(2A) that “…goods are of satisfactory quality if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as satisfactory, taking account of any description of the 
goods, the price (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances”.  
Ref: DRN0633271
3
Given the expense of the system and way it was intended to operate over a long period of 
time, I consider it is reasonable for Mrs S to regard satisfactory quality to be a system that 
would function properly for more than 3 years.
So, given that, I consider it fair and reasonable for Creation to be liable for the faulty system 
in the same way that My Planet would have been through the implied term resulting from 
consumer protection legislation.
putting things right
As I’ve decided it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to accept responsibility for Mrs S’ claim 
about the faulty solar panel system, I must set out what I think Creation should do to resolve 
matters.

Arrange for an inspection to be carried out of Mrs S’ solar panels.  It is acknowledged 
that this may take longer than usual due to the current pandemic circumstances, but 
it should be arranged as soon as realistically possible.

If the inspection identifies faults with the system that require repair or replacement, it 
should arrange for reinstatement of the system to working order.

Pay £100 to Mrs S for the trouble and upset she’s experienced as a result of Creation 
not accepting responsibility and resolving matters earlier.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs S’ complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.  
To put things right Creation should carry out the steps detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0633271
