K821x#15
complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has given incorrect information 
about a loan he has to Credit Reference Agencies (“CRAs”).
background
Mr A took out a loan with Creation in 2009. Creation subsequently instructed its solicitors to 
commence proceedings against Mr A for recovery of the balance due on the loan.
In 2014 Mr A reached an agreement with Creation’s solicitors whereby he agreed to pay 
Creation a reduced amount of £7,200 by instalments of £50 per month. This agreement was 
recorded in a court order.
In February 2015 Mr A complained to Creation that his credit report was still showing the full 
balance of the loan as outstanding. Creation then made an adjustment to the information it 
was providing to CRAs.
In January 2019 Mr A again complained to Creation about the information it was giving to 
CRAs. It didn’t uphold his complaint and he referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He thought the outstanding 
balance on the loan Creation had reported to CRAs was incorrect and it had also incorrectly 
stated Mr A was in arrears with the payments he was due to make. He thought Creation 
should correct Mr A’s credit file and pay him £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
he’s been caused.
Mr A didn’t accept our investigator’s recommendation. He says he’s been refused loans and 
mortgages due to the incorrect information given by Creation. He says he’s been unable to 
move house and has had to take out loans at high interest rates.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has a duty to ensure that information it gives to CRAs is accurate. I’m satisfied that 
the information it’s provided about Mr A’s loan hasn’t always been completely accurate. I 
think Creation should take appropriate steps to ensure Mr A’s credit file records the 
agreement that was made in 2014 and the payments he’s made since then.
I’ve carefully considered Mr A’s comments about the affect the incorrect information shown 
on his credit file has had on his ability to take out further loans and mortgages. On the 
evidence I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded I could reasonably decide that Creation was solely 
responsible for Mr A’s problems. Mortgage lenders each have their own criteria for deciding 
whether or not to lend to a particular individual. I haven’t seen sufficient evidence to show 
that the issues recorded on Mr A’s credit file about his loan from Creation were the only 
reason he couldn’t meet a lender’s criteria.
Ref: DRN0737192
2
It’s clear the incorrect information Creation has given to CRAs has caused Mr A 
unnecessary trouble and upset. In all the circumstances, I’m satisfied £100 is a reasonable 
amount for Mr A to receive in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1
Take appropriate action to correct the information shown on Mr A’s credit file about his 
loan; and
2
Pay Mr A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0737192
