K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains that the fixed sum loan agreement he entered into with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd was mis-sold. He also complains that Creation released the funds before the 
works had been accepted and put undue pressure on him to make repayments while issues 
were still outstanding.
background
Mr P entered into a purchase agreement with a retailer in 2016 for work on his property and 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for this. He says that he was told by the 
salesperson that the loan would be interest free and that he would be required to pay £4,568 
over 15 months. He says that the finance provided was not as he was told and that interest 
was applied. He says the agreement was mis-sold.
Mr P says that there were issues with the work carried out on his property and that although 
he told Creation not to release the funds it did. He says that while issues were still 
outstanding with the works and in regard to his concerns about the sale of the finance 
agreement, Creation continued to chase him for payment and applied interest and charges 
to his account.
Creation says that Mr P signed the agreement which set out the payments as 120 monthly 
payments of £83.15. It says that Mr P is able to make additional payments under the 
agreement which would result in the term being reduced and therefore the interest being 
reduced and that he can repay the agreement early if desired. It says that the agreement 
was confirmed in November 2016 and it did not hear from Mr P until January 2017. 
Creation noted that Mr P’s account was in arrears and said that it could update his credit file 
to remove the arrears once payment had been made and the account brought up to date.
Our investigator did not think that the finance agreement had been mis-sold. She noted that 
Creation had offered to waive the £55 of charges that were applied to Mr P’s account before 
it was frozen and to adjust his credit file to remove the arrears once payment had been 
made. She said that Creation expected Mr P to start making payments and that Mr P could 
repay the loan in one lump sum payment or agree a payment plan. 
Mr P did not accept our investigator’s view. He reiterated that the agreement had been mis-
sold. He said that he had not received any information in November 2016 about the 
agreement and payment options and that the cooling off period had passed by the time the 
works were done. 
Mr P said that Creation harassed him for payments even though issues were still 
outstanding in regard to the works and the sale of the finance agreement.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P initially complained about the quality of the works carried out as well as the finance 
agreement being mis-sold. Under the regulations Creation is liable if the goods provided 
were not of satisfactory quality or if the finance agreement was mis-represented to Mr P.
Ref: DRN0331176
2
This complaint has been ongoing for a number of months and I understand that the remedial 
works required have now been completed to Mr P’s satisfaction. Therefore I have not 
considered the issue regarding the quality of goods any further.
The outstanding issue relates to the finance agreement and the actions of Creation in regard 
to its releasing of the funds and contacting Mr P for repayment. 
Mr P says that the agreement was mis-sold. I have looked at the finance agreement and can 
see that this clearly sets out the payments required as 120 monthly payments of £83.15. It 
sets out the total amount payable and the interest rate. 
Mr P says that the salesperson carried out calculations on his computer and recorded a 
minimum monthly payment of £95.37 over 120 months. This number was written on the 
agreement. He says the salesperson then carried out a further calculation to see what 
additional payments would be needed on top of the minimum payments to pay the loan off 
over 15 months. This figure was found to be £209.16 and Mr P says that he was told by 
paying this he would not incur additional interest. 
I have looked at the agreement on which the number of £95.37 is written and then below it the 
number £209.16 x 15 is written. Based on the minimum payments of £95.37 over 120 months, 
total payments of over £11,000 would be made. Given the cost of the goods acquired, I find 
that it is clear based on these suggested payments that interest was included. The calculation 
provided for the additional payments shows how the additional loan amount could be repaid 
over 15 months. From what I have seen, Mr P could do this through making additional 
payments and these payments would not incur additional interest as they would be reducing 
the overall loan balance and therefore reduce the total interest amount paid.
Creation has confirmed that additional payments can be made above the minimum payment 
amount and these will reduce the term and therefore interest paid. It has also said that early 
settlement is an option.
Based on the evidence I have seen, I can see there was confusion over the payment 
amounts but I do not find that I have enough to say that the agreement was mis-sold. I have 
not seen anything to suggest that Mr P was told there would be no interest chargeable on 
the agreement and while I understand his thoughts given the numbers provided I think it 
reasonable that he would have expected to pay some interest. This is clearly set out in the 
finance agreement along with the repayment amounts.
Mr P has said that he didn’t get a copy of the finance agreement and that it was applied for 
online by the salesperson on the day of the sale. I note there was a letter from Creation 
dated November 2016 which also set out the repayment options under the agreement but 
Mr P says he did not receive this. While I note Mr P’s comments it appears that a letter was 
sent to Mr P in November. I also think it reasonable that Mr P would have looked through the 
agreement terms before accepting them. 
Mr P has also said that he raised his concerns with the works and the agreement and that 
Creation should not have released the funds and should not have chased him for payment. I 
have looked through the documents provided and Mr P signed the authorisation to activate 
the credit agreement document in January 2017. It is accepted that the installation was not 
to the standard expected and remedial work was needed. However based on what I have 
seen the installation appears to have been substantially completed and so it was not 
unreasonable that the credit agreement was activated and that Mr P was notified of his first 
payment due date.
Ref: DRN0331176
3
I understand why Mr P felt everything should have been put on hold while issues were 
outstanding. However as he had agreed to the terms of the finance agreement I do not find 
that I can say Creation was not allowed to contact him for repayment. I can see why this was 
upsetting and understand why he feels charges should not have been added in this time. 
Creation has said that it will waive the charges added to Mr P’s account before it was frozen 
and that it can amend his credit file once the account has been brought up to date. I find that 
this is a reasonable response to this part of Mr P’s complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2018.
Jane archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0331176
