K821x#15
complaint
Mr H complains about issues he’s experienced with a sofa purchased with finance from 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
Mr H purchased a sofa from SCS in October 2014 and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation. Following delivery Mr H experienced a number of issues with the sofa. Mr H 
contacted SCS who arranged for the issues to be repaired. Over the following year Mr H 
experienced further issues. He contacted SCS again who referred him to castellan with 
whom he had taken out insurance protection. Castelan told Mr H it would deal with some of 
the issues but the remainder would have to be referred back to SCS. Over the following 12 
months both SCS and Castelan carried out inspections and repairs.
Not all of the issues were resolved and Mr H contacted Creation in June 2017. Creation 
offered to collect the sofa and cancel the finance agreement subject to a deduction of 40% 
for usage. Mr H wasn’t happy with the deduction and wants a full refund of all payments he 
has made together with compensation. 
The investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said the offer to refund 60% of Mr H’s 
payments was reasonable because Mr H had used the sofa for 3 years. The investigator 
said Mr H should be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he had suffered as a 
result of the issues.
Mr H didn’t agree. He acknowledged that he’d had use of the sofa for 3 years but said it had 
problems from the beginning which still hadn’t been fixed. He said the compensation wasn’t 
enough because he’d taken unpaid leave from work to be at home for the numerous 
inspections.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Creation is offering a refund of 60% of the total cost of finance, which 
includes a warranty. The effect of this is that Creation will retain £685.20 with the balance of 
any payments refunded to Mr H.
I appreciate that Mr H has experienced several issues with the sofa during the last 3 years 
and that repairs have been attempted. Some of the issues have been resolved but others 
haven’t. I understand Mr H’s frustration. But on balance I think the offer is fair. Mr H has had 
use of the sofa for 3 years albeit that part of the sofa may not have been as comfortable as 
he would have liked.
I’ve taken into consideration the time Mr H has spent trying to resolve the issues and the 
inconvenience he has been caused. Mr H only complained to Creation in 2017 so I can’t 
fairly ask it to compensate Mr H for time he took off work prior to this. The details of unpaid 
leave provided by Mr H all relate to 2016 which is prior to Creation’s involvement.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account I think the offer by Creation is 
fair and I won’t be asking it to refund all of the payments made by Mr H. Mr H has suffered 
Ref: DRN0671299
2
distress and inconvenience as a result of these issues and Creation should pay him £150 to 
reflect this.
my final decision
The offer from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is fair. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay compensation to Mr H of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2018.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0671299
