K821x#15
complaint
Mr O has complained that he entered into a finance agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd for a sofa set, but it was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr O took out a loan with Creation for a sofa set. After around three months, he has 
explained that a zip on a sofa ripped, which attached the back cushion to the headrest. 
Although attempts were made to repair it, the problem persists. Because of this, he wants to 
return the suite and cancel the agreement.
Creation had the sofa inspected, and has stated that the problem has been caused by Mr O 
not maintaining the sofa properly, so the problem is likely to continue. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. This was because he 
felt the sofa was not of satisfactory quality.
Creation disagreed, but offered to replace the zips and pay Mr O £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused. He didn’t accept this, so the complaint has been passed to me for my final 
decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the person who inspected the sofa felt it wasn’t being maintained properly. 
The key parts of what was said, in my view, are that Mr O’s young children were damaging 
the sofa, and that Mr O was leaning back on the zipper. It has been stated that the zipper 
isn’t strong enough for this sort of use.
I don’t know for sure exactly what Mr O’s children have possibly done or not. But they are 
very young toddlers, and I would expect that a sofa supplied for a family home should be 
able to withstand the vast majority of pulling on it that such young children may do. Even if 
this were not the case, it is clear that Mr O should be able to rest back against the sofa 
(which is one of its main purposes) without damaging it. The fact he cannot strongly 
suggests to me that the sofa is not of satisfactory quality.
In this kind of situation, I would typically recommend that the zip should be repaired. 
However, there have been two failed attempts to do this, and a third inspection concluded 
that the problem would likely continue to happen. It therefore seems to me that a further 
repair would not resolve matters.
For these reasons, I feel it fair that either:
a)
the set be replaced with one of the same quality; or
b) Creation should refund the deposit and 80% of the repayments (to recognise that Mr 
O had some use of the sofa). 
In both cases, the furniture Mr O bought would be removed by Creation at its own expense.
Ref: DRN0301673
2
Mr O may choose which option he prefers.
I can also see that there were delays in Creation trying to resolve matters with Mr O. 
Because of this, I feel it should pay him £100 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, it’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
a)
replace the set with one of the same quality and remove the old set at its own 
expense; or
b) remove the old furniture at its own expense, and refund the deposit and 80% of the 
repayments, adding 8% simple interest per year to each, from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Mr O may choose which option he prefers.
Creation must also pay Mr O £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2015.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0301673
