K820x#14
complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd refused her claim brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to faulty goods purchased with a fixed 
sum loan it financed. She wants replacement items or a refund.
background
Mrs C is represented in this complaint by her husband Mr C, but for ease of reading I’ll 
mostly refer to Mrs C.
Mrs C tells us she purchased two identical sofas from a retailer I’ll call “H”. She says when 
the furniture arrived one item was perfect but the other looked as if it had been used - 
possibly as a demonstration model. She says the leather back cushions were soggy and 
wrinkled and lacked “body”.
Creation said that an inspection had been carried out by a company I’ll refer to as “E”. It said 
that E had reported that there were some differences in thickness and density of the seat 
interiors. But had found this was within acceptable tolerances and no manufacturing faults 
had been identified.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 June 2020. I said that I didn’t intend to 
uphold the complaint. I found that there was insufficient information to show the goods 
weren’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And that an expert’s report had stated 
that there were no manufacturing faults.
Since issuing my provisional decision both parties have indicated their acceptance of my 
provisional findings. I thank both parties for their responses. In those circumstances I see no 
need to alter any of my findings. I’ve largely repeated these in my final decision which is set 
out below.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m sorry Mrs C has been disappointed by the quality of one of the sofas with which she was 
supplied.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. And a breach of contract might occur if goods supplied weren’t of 
satisfactory quality.
It’s worth making clear that I’m not deciding Creation’s liability under section 75 - only a court 
could do that. I take into account the relevant law and that includes section 75. But I decide 
cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires. What I’m deciding is 
whether Creation did enough in considering Mrs C’s complaint. And if it didn’t, what else it 
should now do.
Where facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN0826917
2
I’ve been provided with photographs taken by Mrs C which are good quality and I feel are 
sufficient to show the condition of the goods supplied.
I’ve also read the report by E’s inspector and noted the comments. He says that Mrs C and 
her husband only sit on the one sofa. So that item has settled down more than the other. E’s 
inspector concluded:
“I have inspected the seat interiors and found them to be fully supportive and fault free. 
There is a difference in thickness and density but neither set are faulty and well within 
acceptable tolerances".
Even with two items that are supposedly identical there are likely to be minor differences. 
And I note the inspector’s comments about acceptable tolerances. Of course, what may be 
acceptable to one individual is not necessarily acceptable to another. But the main point of 
his findings is that there is no manufacturing fault.
The photographs show that one sofa appears to be showing more signs of use than the 
other. But I can’t see any obvious damage. With softer material even after a short period it’s 
likely that differences will be apparent if compared to a less regularly used or unused item. 
That doesn’t mean there’s a fault rather than it’s the nature of the items and the materials 
used. And I do have to take into account that E’s inspector had the advantage of being able 
to examine the actual items and not just rely on photographs.
I’ve already said that I’m not deciding if Mrs C has a valid section 75 claim. I’m deciding if 
Creation has dealt with her complaint fairly. Or put another way, has it looked at the relevant 
issues and reached a reasonable decision based on the information that’s available.
The expert report is clear in finding no manufacturing fault. I’ve seen nothing that would 
persuade me that this is incorrect. The photographs supplied, in my opinion, do not depict 
damage or support the view that the visible condition of the items is not of satisfactory 
quality. In those circumstances I think Creation was entitled to conclude there’d been no 
breach of contract for which it would be liable. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0826917
