K821x#14
complaint
Mrs N says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2006, Mrs N bought some furniture in a shop and took out a £1,699.00 loan to pay for it. 
At the same time Creation sold her a PPI policy which cost £554.07. This was added to the 
loan and repaid over the 36-month term. The interest on the policy was £494.04. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs N’s complaint, because she didn’t think Creation had made clear 
how much the policy would cost. She also thought that Creation shouldn’t have sold the 
policy to Mrs N without pointing out to her that it wouldn’t meet her needs because of her 
health problems.
Creation disagreed. It said the paperwork it gave Mrs N when she bought the policy would 
have made her aware of the cost. Creation says Mrs N would still have gone ahead with the 
policy even if the costs had been set out more clearly. And it also says it gave Mrs N enough 
information about the policy exclusions so that she could make an informed choice.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs N’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs N’s complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that Creation didn’t properly tell Mrs N how much the policy cost. 
I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs N to work it out 
for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it seems to have been on page two of 
a document setting out information about the policy. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs 
N would expect it to be. I can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when 
she was in a shop and her attention was on buying furniture – not on buying insurance. 
Mrs N says (and I accept) that nothing was explained about the policy. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mrs N better understand what it was costing her. 

Creation says Mrs N would’ve still bought the policy because she had no other means 
she could use to make her loan repayments. I disagree. I don’t think Mrs N would have 
bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of how much it was going to cost 
her, compared to the fairly modest amount she was borrowing. 
Ref: DRN0871364
2

I’ve also kept in mind Mrs N has also told us she had other means she could’ve used to 
make her loan repayments, so I think it’s likely she would’ve thought she would have 
been able to manage to meet her repayments. So I don’t think she would’ve gone ahead 
with the policy.
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs N’s complaint. 
I’ve not made a finding on whether Creation gave Mrs N enough information about the 
exclusions relating to medical conditions. Because I’ve already upheld the complaint for the 
reasons given above. 
what Creation should do to put things right
Mrs N should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term. 
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs N because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs N had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs N actually paid, and paying her the difference; 
and

paying Mrs N simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mrs N setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs N needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs N should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mrs N 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
Ref: DRN0871364
3
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs N’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs N compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2015.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0871364
