K820x#14
complaint
Mr S bought a mattress from Dreams using finance that he got from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation), but he says the mattress isn’t fit for purpose and he wants a refund.
background
Mr S bought a bed from Dreams in February 2016. He financed his purchase with a loan 
from Creation. A year later he complained to Creation because the mattress had become 
discoloured, there were bumps in it and fluff was coming out of the mattress.
But Creation said that, as the mattress was now a year old, they couldn’t take it back unless 
Mr S could prove there was a fault when he bought it. They suggested Mr S get an 
independent inspection.
The independent inspection that Mr S subsequently obtained said the discolouration was 
probably due to transfer from the bedding Mr S had used and that the indentation was within 
the expected tolerance. The inspector didn’t think it was likely anything was wrong with the 
mattress when Mr S purchased it. So Creation refused to refund Mr S’s money.
Mr S referred the complaint to this service as he still thought Creation should refund the 
money he’d paid for a product he could no longer use. But our investigator couldn’t find 
enough evidence to prove that the mattress was faulty and she was of the view that Mr S’s 
complaint couldn’t be upheld.
So Mr S asked for this review from an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the investigator’s view. I’ll explain why.
It must be upsetting for Mr S not to have a mattress he can comfortably sleep in, especially 
as it was quite an expensive mattress. If he’d complained about the issue when he first took 
receipt of the mattress it would have been clear there was a fault with it when he bought it. 
But he didn’t and it was a year until he told Creation he was unhappy. 
It was therefore Mr S’s responsibility to prove that the mattress was, in all likelihood, 
unsatisfactory when purchased and that’s why Creation told him he’d need an independent 
investigation. But that investigation has not identified any problems and so it’s not possible 
for me to suggest that there was anything wrong with the mattress, or to insist that Creation 
refund Mr S his money.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2017.
Ref: DRN0797861
2
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN0797861
