K821x#15
complaint
Mr T complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sold him in 2007 over the telephone. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She said she didn’t think Creation had made Mr T 
aware he had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And she didn’t think it made the cost 
of the policy clear.
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mr T a choice whether to buy the policy, and the overall 
cost of the policy was clear enough. And it asked for an ombudsman to review the case and 
issue a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account in deciding 
Mr T’s case. 
Mr T has said he was not told the insurance was optional. Creation hasn’t been able to 
provide a recording of the sales call. But it has provided a script it says would’ve been used 
at the time of the sale. But having looked at the script, I’m not satisfied that Creation made 
Mr T aware the policy was optional – and that he could choose to buy it, or not – because: 

The script is short. It didn’t require the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was 
optional, or get Mr T’s explicit consent to add it to his loan. 

The script told the call handler to ‘include quotes with payment protection and without’. 
But it didn’t say what form those quotes should take, how they should be delivered, or 
what prominence should be given to the ‘without’ quote. So this part of the script seems 
to have been open to interpretation by each call handler and I can’t be sure Mr T was 
given an option to accept or decline the insurance. 

I don’t think the brief mention of cancellation rights in the script was enough to make 
Mr T aware he had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And I also don’t think it 
would’ve given him the confidence to cancel the policy where he hadn’t first been told it 
was optional. 

Although the credit agreement does allow for Mr T to select the insurance, the policy is 
not described as optional. And this would’ve been sent out after the initial phone call, 
when the insurance was sold to him. 

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mr T over the phone. I think Mr T would have relied 
more on what he was told during the call than on anything he received in writing 
afterwards. So Creation should’ve made the optional nature of the policy clear to Mr T 
during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.
Ref: DRN1770708
2
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Mr T that he had 
any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental failing 
on Creation’s part and I uphold Mr T’s complaint for this reason. 
Given the above, I don’t need to go on to look at any further aspects of the way the policy 
was sold. However, for clarity, I will add that I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also 
didn’t properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mr T at the point of sale. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr T’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so Mr T’s loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
he paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr T needs to get back the extra he paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back (the rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on†).
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited must pay Mr T the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2015.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1770708
