K821x#14
complaint
Mr L says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to him.
background
In 2006 Mr L bought various electrical goods in a shop and he took out a £1,584.95 loan to 
pay for those goods. At the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost 
£646.78, which was added to the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr L wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including £616.44 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 48 months of the loan.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mr L’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mr L would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation didn’t reply to the adjudicator’s opinion.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr L’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr L how much the policy cost. I say this because:
•
The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show 
the PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr L to work 
it out for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the 
cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement. 
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr L would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying his various goods – not on buying insurance.  
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr L better understand what the policy was 
costing him.  
•
The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr L aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 32.4%. This meant Mr L would pay a substantial extra amount of 
interest on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.    
Ref: DRN1477983
2
•
The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr L was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr L would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. 
•
I don’t think Mr L would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr L’s complaint.
fair compensation
Mr L borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr L needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr L the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr L paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†.

If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mr L’s complaint should be upheld. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2015.
Kristina Mathews
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1477983
