K820x#13
complaint
Mr B complains that he shouldn’t have to repay finance provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited to fund an insurance premium, because the insurance was cancelled. He is 
represented by a family member, who I shall call Mr C. 
 
background 
In 2013 Mr B took out a loan to pay a premium for a policy with a third party insurer. The 
policy was cancelled about six months later so Mr B says he shouldn’t have to make any 
more payments for it.     
Creation says it paid the premium to third party insurer. And any issues arising from the 
policy cancellation are between Mr B and his insurers. But Mr B remains responsible for 
repaying this loan.  
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint should be upheld. She’s satisfied Mr B took 
out the loan and he should repay it - even if the insurance it paid for was cancelled. And 
she’s not persuaded Creation has done anything wrong. 
Mr C says Mr B hasn’t been treated fairly. The insurance shouldn’t have been cancelled and 
Mr B shouldn’t have to continue to pay for a policy that’s no longer in place. So Creation is 
wrong to chase payment. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have reached the same conclusions 
as our adjudicator for much the same reasons. 
I understand Mr B is frustrated by the way his insurance policy was administered. And he 
says his insurers decided to cancel the policy (for reasons he disagrees with) so he 
cancelled the direct debit he set up to pay for the premium. 
But, in arranging to take out his insurance, Mr B entered into a number of different 
agreements with various parties - including the insurer who provided the policy, an insurance 
broker who arranged it and Creation – the lender that provided the loan to pay the premium. 
Creation hasn’t been able to provide a copy of that loan agreement. But I’m satisfied it was a 
separate agreement to Mr B’s policy of insurance. And Creation paid the full amount of Mr 
B’s premium to his insurers, at the start of the policy - so he had the benefit of the money. Mr 
B doesn’t dispute he took out the loan and I can see he maintained monthly repayments for 
the first few months. So, I’m satisfied he remains liable to pay the balance in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr B considers his insurance should not have been cancelled. But this 
complaint is about Creation. It provided the finance to pay the premium, but not the 
insurance. And Mr B says it was the insurers’ decision to cancel his policy. So I’m not 
Ref: DRN1358905
2
persuaded there are grounds here for me to find that Creation has done anything wrong or 
that Mr B shouldn’t have to repay this loan. 
I realise this decision is likely to disappoint Mr B. I understand he believes he must be 
entitled to some sort of premium refund - because his policy was cancelled early. It remains 
open to him to raise that with his insurers. And if he’s dissatisfied with the response he may 
be able to bring a complaint about that to this service.  
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
13 July 2015.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1358905
