K821x#14
complaint
Mr M complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sold to him in 2009 over the telephone.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didn’t think Creation had made Mr M aware he had 
a choice about whether to buy the policy. And he also didn’t think it made the cost clear.  
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mr M a choice whether to buy the policy And it also gave 
him enough information about the cost to make an informed choice.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints. 
I’ve decided to uphold the complaint.
Creation sold the policy to Mr M during a telephone call. It hasn’t been able to provide a call 
recording; but it has provided a script it says would have been followed. I’ve considered the 
script along with the documents Creation says it would have sent to Mr M immediately after 
the call. And I’ve also considered what Mr M says about how the policy was sold to him. I’m 
not satisfied that Creation made Mr M aware the policy was optional. 
The script does prompt the sales representative to say that they are going to give some 
information about optional payment protection insurance. But it didn’t require the 
representative to clearly explain that the policy was optional, or get Mr M’s explicit consent to 
add it to his loan. 
The script asks the consumer if they would like to have documentation, including the 
insurance sent to them. I do not think this makes it clear that the insurance was separate to 
the loan. And it is likely a consumer would say yes because they wanted their loan 
documentation.
I agree with our adjudicator that the cost of the insurance wasn’t made clear to Mr M. The 
call script makes no reference to the cost of the policy. The script didn’t require the sales 
representative to disclose the single premium cost, that interest would be charged on it and 
how much that interest would be, or the total cost. So I don’t think that details of cost were 
given to Mr M at the point of sale.
The credit agreement provided to Mr M after the sales call was pre populated with the costs 
of the policy But it didn’t show the policy interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Mr M to work out this figure by subtracting the PPI premium from the total cost. 
Particularly as these were only two of several figures on the credit agreement and as he 
hadn’t been told the premium would attract interest.
Ref: DRN1716790
2
A statement of price does set out the interest charged on the insurance. But this was on 
page two of the policy summary. So it wasn’t easy to find or where Mr M would expect it to 
be.
Creation should have made sure Mr M’s attention was drawn to the important information 
about the policy which would be likely to affect his decision making. I have no reason to 
doubt that the cost of the policy would have been important to Mr M. And I think that, if he’d 
been clearly told about the cost of the policy, he wouldn’t have bought it. 
Creation effectively sold the policy to Mr M over the phone. I think Mr M would have relied 
more on what he was told during the call than on anything he received in writing afterwards. 
So Creation should have made the optional nature of the policy and the costs of the policy 
clear to Mr M during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.
fair compensation
Mr M should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. 
Creation should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr M because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr M had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr M actually paid and paying him the 
difference; and

paying Mr M simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was 
made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr M to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation has to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. 
Whether Mr M needs to take any further action will depend on his financial circumstances. 
More information about the tax position can be found on our website. 
Mr M should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1716790
