K820x#14
complaint
Mrs T complains that she felt pressured into acquiring a bed which she financed through a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She says she cannot afford 
the repayments and no longer wants the bed. 
background
Mrs T entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in May 2017 to acquire a bed. 
The agreement required monthly repayments of just over £86 for 60 months. Mrs T says that 
she felt pressured into acquiring the bed and that as soon as she realised the repayments 
would put her into debt she tried to cancel the agreement. 
The supplier says that it had an initial appointment with Mrs T and it offered her £15 of 
vouchers for allowing it to give her a presentation about its products. It says that Mrs T was 
told she could bring the presentation to an end at any time and that its prices would remain 
for six months. 
The supplier says that Mrs T decided to make a purchase and so she received a welcome 
call. During the first welcome call Mrs T confirmed that she understood the financial details 
of the product and her financial details. It says that Mrs T said she had received the 
documents but had not read them and so the call was paused. Mrs T was contacted again 
and confirmed she had read the documents. It says Mrs T was provided with the information 
she needed and there was nothing to suggest she was not happy with her purchase. The 
bed was delivered in May 2017 and Mrs T signed to say she was satisfied.
The supplier says that Mrs T had a cancelation period of 14 days and that she did not make 
contact until after this had passed. 
Creation says that Mrs T confirmed the financial information on the welcome calls and said 
that the payments were affordable. It says based on this and the information provided by the 
supplier, it did not uphold this complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that based on the documents he had 
seen Mrs T got the bed she wanted. He said that the information Mrs T provided at the time 
of the loan suggested she did have enough disposable income to make the repayments. He 
said that as Mrs T had said she could not afford to make the repayments she should contact 
the business and discuss an affordable repayment plan.
Mrs T did not agree with our investigator’s view.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for the acquisition of a 
bed. She says that the loan was unaffordable and that she felt pressured into acquiring the 
bed.
I have looked at all of the information provided. I can see that the supplier met with Mrs T to 
give her a presentation of its products. Mrs T provided information to the supplier about her 
Ref: DRN1265662
2
needs and sleep patterns. This suggests that Mrs T was interested in discussing options in 
regard to a new bed.
Mrs T signed the sales contract which set out the details of the bed she was acquiring and 
its cost. A welcome call took place and Mrs T confirmed the product, price and method of 
payment. I understand that the first welcome call was not completed because Mrs T said she 
had not had a chance to go through the documents. I find it reasonable that the supplier 
allowed Mrs T time to do this and that a second call took place to confirm this had happened.
Based on what I have seen in regard to the sales process, I do not find I have evidence to 
support Mrs T’s comments that she was pressured into acquiring the bed.
In regard to the affordability of the loan, I have looked at the financial information Mrs T 
provided. This showed her monthly income and expenses and her annual income bracket. 
Mrs T has since confirmed her weekly income amount. Based on the information Mrs T 
provided, I do not find that Creation should have been concerned that the loan was 
unaffordable.
Creation has explained its lending process and that it carries out a check with a credit 
reference agency. It says that based on the information Mrs T provided and the checks 
carried out Mrs T was approved for the loan without further checks being required. 
The loan agreement clearly set out the terms of the loan including the repayment amounts 
and I find that Mrs T should have been aware of these before she signed the document. The 
document also sets out Mrs T’s right to withdraw within 14 days. Mrs T did not contact the 
supplier or Creation within the 14 day period.
On balance I do not find that I have enough evidence to say that the bed was mis-sold or 
that Creation should have been aware at the point of sale that the loan was unaffordable. 
Mrs T has explained that she cannot afford the loan repayments. Creation should treat Mrs T 
positively and sympathetically given her situation and Mrs T should contact Creation to 
discuss an affordable repayment plan.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2017.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1265662
