K820x#13
complaint
Ms Q complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) did not treat her 
appropriately when she suffered financial difficulties.
background
Ms Q took out a loan with Creation in 2009. She fell into financial difficulties and it offered to 
refinance the loan at a far lower interest rate. The new loan was at an interest rate of 9.9%, 
whereas the interest rate on the first loan was 29.8%. But as the new loan was for a larger 
amount, this meant that although Ms Q’s monthly repayments were lower, she ended up 
paying more interest overall than if she had kept her first loan.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the refinancing reduced Ms Q’s monthly outgoings and in turn, made sure that the 
impact on her credit file (and ability to borrow) in the future was reduced. He also explained 
that as the refinancing had happened in 2009, Creation now had very limited information 
about the matter. So he had to form his findings on balance, or what he considered most 
likely to have happened. 
Ms Q disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that Creation did not advise her 
correctly. She said that refinancing was the only option given to her and no other options, 
such as a repayment plan, were discussed. She also said that Creation made it quite clear 
that she either had to clear the full arrears or refinance. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have looked at the industry codes at the time Ms Q refinanced her loan. They said that a 
lender should treat a borrower in financial difficulties sympathetically and positively. The 
Finance and Leasing Association Code said that this could include making new 
arrangements with the borrower about paying off the debt. The Banking Code said that a 
request that a debt be paid over a very long period, even where a borrower could afford to 
make reasonable repayments, would be unreasonable. Concessions were to be agreed on a 
case by case basis.  
Unfortunately due to the time that has elapsed since Ms Q entered into the second loan 
agreement in 2009, Creation no longer has its contact records to show what it discussed 
with her. But it believed that Ms Q wanted to lower her repayments, and that she was keen 
to avoid legal action.
Ms Q already owed Creation over £3,730 in 2009 when she entered into the refinancing 
agreement. I do not know if a repayment arrangement was considered. But, I can see that if 
Ms Q had said that she could afford to make repayments of around £50 a month, that it 
would take her at least another six years to repay the first loan, which should have been 
Ref: DRN1831593
2
repaid by 2011 if she had kept up her repayments. I can see that Creation might have 
considered another six years to be too long a period for the first loan to be repaid.
I can also see that the refinancing loan which Ms Q agreed to was for a far lower interest 
rate than the first loan. Its interest rate was 9.9%, which was almost 20% lower than the 
interest rate on the first loan. I also note that the new monthly repayments were £49.64, 
which was more than £67 cheaper each month than her previous loan repayments. I can see 
that Ms Q is unhappy at the amount of interest she is paying on the new loan, but I can also 
see that if her circumstances improved, she may have expected to repay the loan earlier, so 
reducing the amount of interest payable. I can also see that as Ms Q has managed to 
maintain almost all of the repayments on the second loan, that this is an indication that the 
repayments are affordable.
I also note that the amount borrowed under the second loan was over £450 more than Ms Q 
owed on the first loan. So, I can see that she would have benefitted from the receipt of this 
sum at a time when she was experiencing financial difficulties.
I also note that Ms Q said that she does not remember signing the second loan agreement. 
But I have seen a copy of the signed agreement and the signed direct debit instruction. In 
view of the passage of time since Ms Q signed it, it is possible that her recollections of the 
conversation with Creation about refinancing may also not be certain. I also note that the 
second loan agreement sets out the repayments, interest and total amount repayable. Ms Q 
would have seen these before agreeing to the loan by signing the loan agreement. I must 
therefore assume that Ms Q accepted the terms of the loan when it was arranged. 
I do not underestimate Ms Q’s strength of feeling. But, I can see that Creation did assist her 
by reducing her monthly payments by more than half. I also note that Creation further helped 
Ms Q by refunding charges of £330 in July 2014. So, I consider, on balance, that Creation’s 
responses were within a range of reasonable responses, bearing in mind its regulatory 
obligation to treat consumers who are in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. 
So, overall, I cannot conclude that Creation has acted inappropriately.
If Ms Q is still experiencing financial difficulties, I would urge her to contact Creation to 
discuss this. I would also remind Creation of its duty to treat cases of financial difficulty 
positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2015.
Roslyn Rawson
Ref: DRN1831593
3
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1831593
