K820x#14
complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has wrongly charged interest on a Buy 
Now Pay Later plan. He wants this to be written off.
 
background
Mr H bought electronic equipment using a Buy Now Pay Later plan provided by Creation. 
The plan says that, if payment is made in full before the end date, then no interest will be 
charged on the amount.
Creation says that it wrote to Mr H in advance of the end date, reminding him that payments 
would start to be taken by direct debit.
Mr H paid the amount in full, before the date of the direct debit but after the end date of the 
agreement. Creation took money under the direct debit he had set up, saying that the 
interest on the amount was now payable.
The terms of the agreement say that:
If you do not pay [the balance] in full before the end of the deferral period then 
interest will be applied from the date the transaction was made.
Creation also says that it provided a sheet headed ‘Important Customer Information’. This 
included, in a highlighted box:
If we receive your settlement payment after [the end date] we will charge interest 
from the date of your purchase at the rate specified above.
Mr H says that this is unfair. He says that he was misled into believing that this was a 
genuine interest free period. He says that it is not fair to charge the interest in full when the 
payment was made shortly after the end date.
Mr H says that the terms and conditions are too complex to be read by an ordinary 
consumer. He says that it should not be necessary to be a legal expert in order to 
understand what is owed.
The adjudicator thought that the business had done nothing wrong here. They thought that 
the terms allowed Creation to fairly act as it did.
Mr H did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is agreed between the parties that the payment was made after the end date.
I have considered Mr H’s argument about the complexity of the terms very carefully. But I am 
afraid that I do not agree with it. 
Ref: DRN1295904
2
The specific term he complains about was highlighted in a separate sheet. I think it was in 
plain enough language to be understood and Mr H signed to say that he understood. I think 
it is reasonable that Creation be allowed to rely upon them.
Mr H says that the period was described as interest free. I think that this is a fair description 
of the period given the terms.
I do not think that Creation has got anything wrong here. It does not have to do anything 
further in relation to this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2017.
Marc Kelly 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1295904
