K820x#14
complaint
Miss L was offered credit by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She is unhappy it was 
withdrawn when she tried to use it.
background
Miss L went to an electronics store to purchase a laptop. She was told she could take 
advantage of a six-month credit offer from Creation. Miss L completed an application and 
was approved for £5,000 of credit. 
The next day she decided to exchange the laptop for a larger model. And she also wanted to 
buy a new phone. But even though the cost of the new laptop and phone was within her 
credit limit she was declined. 
Miss L rang Creation to ask why. It said it was concerned about the transaction. But a 
different team told her it was for another reason it couldn’t explain to her. So she made a 
complaint. She wants compensation and a proper explanation why her credit was withdrawn. 
And she wants confirmation her credit rating won’t be affected in the future. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. Miss L went through the usual checks. But when she 
returned the goods and tried to make other purchases Creation became concerned. So it 
declined her credit. 
Our investigator could understand why this would be surprising for Miss L. She’d been 
approved for credit the previous day. But he thought Creation was entitled to make business 
decisions about its lending. And it didn’t have to explain its procedures. So he couldn’t say 
Creation had done anything wrong.
Miss L is unhappy with Creation’s poor response to her complaint. And she still hasn’t got a 
proper explanation why her credit approval was changed. So she’s asked for an 
ombudsman’s final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how this must have been a frustrating experience for Miss L. She’d been approved 
for credit to purchase a laptop. But when she wanted to exchange it for a different model she 
found her credit offer had been withdrawn. And she didn’t know why.
I’ve confirmed Miss L was originally approved for £5,000 credit. Unfortunately I can’t offer 
Miss L a clear explanation of what’s happened. Creation has said, due to the nature of the 
transactions, it isn’t able to provide the exact reason.
I’ve also looked at Creation’s final response to Miss L. The letter says, taking everything into 
account, her final score was below its acceptable level. It doesn’t explain why Miss L was 
able to obtain credit one day, but declined the next. So I can understand Miss L’s frustration. 
But it’s clear from what Creation’s said it felt there was a risk. So it decided to withdraw the 
offer.
Ref: DRN1759829
2
I appreciate Miss L says she just wanted to change her purchase and wants a clearer 
explanation. Creation says it doesn’t provide specific reasons when it declines customers. 
That’s to stop them changing how they make other applications at a later date. In the 
circumstances I can’t say that’s unreasonable.
Unfortunately Miss L’s decision to exchange her purchase caused the credit provider to 
withdraw its offer. And while I understand this must have been disappointing for Miss L, 
I can’t say Creation has done anything wrong. It’s entitled to decide who it offers credit to. 
And it’s sensible for it to protect its decision-making process.
I know Miss L is concerned this might affect her in the future. So I’ve asked Creation if this 
will have any impact on Miss L’s credit rating. It’s confirmed her file will just show a search 
was completed but it shouldn’t have a negative impact.
While I realise this isn’t the result Miss L wanted, I hope this shows I’ve fully investigated her 
complaint and the reason behind my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2017.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1759829
