K822x
complaint
Mrs D is unhappy Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t cancel a fixed sum loan agreement 
when she returned a sofa suite. She says it was agreed the loan would be cancelled when 
she got a second sofa suite and a second fixed sum loan.
Mrs D has been represented on this complaint by her husband, Mr D. But, to keep things 
simple, I will only refer to Mrs D in my decision.
background 
In May 2017, Mrs D bought a sofa suite (“suite A”) from a retailer I will refer to as “Y”. This 
was financed with a fixed sum loan agreement (“loan A”) with Creation. The agreement was 
for £2,578 over 36 months, with repayments of £69.63 per month. She paid a deposit of £70. 
The repayments were due to start in June 2018. There was an option to pay a single 
payment of £1,354 to settle the agreement in full after 12 months.
Mrs D says a few months after getting the furniture she began to have problems with it. She 
says it was faulty, as the recliner mechanisms were difficult to operate.
A representative from the manufacturer came to inspect the suite. Mrs D says they agreed it 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. Creation says the inspection showed there were no issues with 
it.
In any event, it was agreed that Y would collect the furniture and Mrs D chose a new sofa 
suite (“suite B”).
In January 2018 a second fixed sum loan agreement (“loan B”) was set up with Creation for 
suite B. This was for £2,298 over 36 months with repayments of £62.11 per month. Mrs D 
paid a deposit of £63. The repayments were due to start in February 2019. There was an 
option to pay £1,211 after 12 months to settle the agreement in full.
Mrs D says she was told loan A would be cancelled when loan B was set up. Creation says 
Y explained to Mrs D that, as it said there was nothing wrong with suite A, she would have to 
repay both loans. It said Y gave Mrs D £400 off the price of suite B for the trade in value of 
suite A. Mrs D says she thought this discount was to reflect the hassle she’d been through in 
getting the furniture replaced. And she thought loan A was cancelled with nothing further to 
pay.
Mrs D was later sent a letter explaining that the first repayment was due for loan A – which is 
when she says she realised the agreement hadn’t been cancelled. In June 2018 Creation 
attempted to take the first repayment, but Mrs D had cancelled her direct debit.
Mrs D complained to Creation. It said Mrs D would’ve been fully aware of the two credit 
agreements – so she was responsible for repaying both loans. Mrs D was unhappy with this 
and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she hadn’t 
seen enough to make her think it was made clear to Mrs D that she would be responsible for 
the two credit agreements. Creation disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I sent Mrs D and Creation a provisional decision on 20 February 2019, explaining that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. My findings from this decision were as follows:
Ref: DRN1117730
2
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. Section 56 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant to this complaint. This says, in certain 
circumstances, a lender is liable for statements made by a supplier in its role as a credit 
broker. In this case, I’ll consider if Y did anything wrong as a credit broker, such as giving 
incorrect information or misleading Mrs D into taking the finance.
Mrs D has ended up owing money on two separate finance agreements and has one sofa 
suite. Thinking about this, I’d have expected Y to make it clear to her that she would have 
two loans and would be responsible for paying for both sets of furniture. There is a credit 
agreement for loan B, but this doesn’t explain it would run at the same time as loan A. 
Having looked through everything Creation and Mrs D gave us, I can’t see any paperwork 
that explains this situation to Mrs D. 
Having thought about this, along with everything Mrs D says, I’m satisfied it wasn’t made 
clear to her that she would still have to repay loans A and B when suite A was replaced.
Creation and Mrs D both say she was given a £400 discount on suite B. Creation says this 
was the trade in value of suite A. Mrs D says she was given the impression this was a 
discount to make up for the hassle she had with the furniture and delays in suite B being 
delivered.
Creation has provided what appears to be a sales invoice for suite B. This is handwritten and 
part of it says “(26644-VLB DOS 17/05/17) – trade in 450”. I think it’s most likely this 
references a trade in value for suite A – even though both Creation and Mrs D understood 
the trade in value/discount to be £400. There are two sections on the invoice for Mrs D to 
sign – both of which are blank. I’m not persuaded this invoice shows that Mrs D understood 
that suite A was a trade in for suite B – or that Mrs D would remain liable for both 
agreements.
Taking everything into account, I don’t think it’s likely it was made clear to Mrs D what the 
discount/trade in value was for, or that she would be responsible for repaying the two loans. 
By not making this clear, I think Y misled Mrs D into taking the loan on suite B.
What I now need to consider is what Mrs D would have done if it was made clear what would 
happen with the finance. I understand that Mrs D wasn’t happy with suite A. Creation said 
the report from when suite A was inspected isn’t available. But, I have seen an email from 
the representative who completed the inspection, sent to Y, which says:
“After a lengthy discussion with (Mr and Mrs D) and a full inspection of the suite it is my 
conclusion that the recliner mechanisms are well within an acceptable working tolerance and 
similar to the shop floor model. Likewise, the sit remains consistent with the shop floor 
model”
The value of the discount applied to suite B that Mrs D received was only worth around a 
third of what she owed on loan A. It appears suite A had a value of around £1,495. Suite B 
cost around £1,696. But with the credit agreements running together, Mrs D will end up 
paying a total cash price of around £2740 for suite B – with the £450 discount applied. This 
is clearly far more than it’s worth.
Ref: DRN1117730
3
I’ve thought carefully about everything Mrs D told us about suite A. But, taking everything 
into account, I’m satisfied suite A was most likely free of faults. And I’ve considered that 
she’d only acquired it a few months before. So, even though she wasn’t happy with the 
reclining mechanisms, I don’t think it’s likely Mrs D would have agreed to trade in suite A had 
she realised she’d have to repay both loans and end up paying more for suite B than it was 
worth.
Taking all of this into account, if everything was made clear to her, I think it’s most likely 
Mrs D would’ve decided to keep suite A, rather than replace it and be responsible for 
repaying two loans.
Thinking about what’s fair and reasonable, I think the best way to put things right is for Mrs D 
to continue to repay loan B and for Creation to cancel loan A.
I’ve considered that it appears suite B was more expensive than suite A. Because of the 
money she appears to have got as a discount, Mrs D owes slightly less on loan B than she 
did on loan A. So I think it’s fair that Creation keeps the deposit Mrs D paid on loan A. But, 
even so, Mrs D will still owe less on loan B than she would have on loan A.
But, I’ve also thought about the distress and inconvenience this situation has caused Mrs D. 
I’m satisfied it would’ve been very stressful for her to find out that she still owed money from 
the first credit agreement when she thought it was cancelled. And she says she’s felt 
harassed by phone calls and letters from Creation trying to recover the debt which she’s 
found very upsetting. So, I’m satisfied any betterment Mrs D has between the two 
agreements is evened out by the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
I gave Mrs D and Creation two weeks to respond with anything else for me to consider. 
Mrs D said she agreed with my provisional decision. Creation didn’t reply.
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
put things right by doing the following:

Cancel the credit agreement dated 17 May 2017 (loan A) with nothing further to pay

Remove this credit agreement and all associated information from Mrs D’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1117730
