K821x#15
complaint
Mr D has complained about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he purchased in 
2005 in connection with a loan. Mr D says the policy was mis-sold by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation Finance).
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Creation Finance did not agree with the adjudicator’s 
view so the complaint has been passed to me for final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding this case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr D’s complaint and my reasons are set out below.
This was a non-advised sale so Mr D should have been provided with sufficiently clear 
information so he could decide whether or not he wanted the PPI policy. I’m not satisfied that 
this happened, particularly in relation to the information about the limitations in relation to 
pre-existing medical conditions.  
Creation Finance has provided a copy of the policy summary Mr D would have received at 
the time of sale. While I accept that this includes details of exclusions regarding pre-existing 
medical conditions, I do not think the information is sufficiently prominent. The exclusions are 
set out in small text in the middle of a page containing a lot of other information. I think 
Creation Finance should have done more to bring the exclusions to Mr D’s attention. This 
information would have been important to Mr D as he says that he’d suffered from stress at 
the time of taking out the policy and this had led to him taking time off work. He also says 
that he was on medication for stress at the time and shortly after taking out the policy, was 
absent from work for several months due to stress. I don’t think Mr D would have taken out 
the policy if he had received clear information about the limitations in relation to pre-existing 
medical conditions because he might not have been able to claim on the policy in all the 
circumstances he had expected.
I think Mr D has lost out as a result of the failings in this case, because I don’t think he would 
have taken out the policy if he’d been properly informed.
It follows that I have decided to uphold Mr D’s complaint.
putting things right
Mr D borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been. He
paid more than he should have each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it
would have. So Mr D needs to get back the extra he has paid. So, Creation Finance should:
Ref: DRN1771506
2

Work out and pay Mr D the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.

Work out and pay Mr D the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr D paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation Finance can take off what he
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Finance to take off tax from this interest. 
Creation Finance must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr D’s complaint. I direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Mr D the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2016.
Jagdeep Tiwana
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1771506
