K821x#15
complaint
Mr B, represented by Ms C, complains that the finance he took out with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation) should have been used in part to pay off his previous finance 
agreement but this did not happen.
background
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with a Vauxhall Finance plc (trading as 
GMAC UK Plc) (GMAC) in 2014 and acquired a car (Car A). In April 2015, Mr B decided to 
exchange Car A for another vehicle and acquired Car B from a dealership. He traded in Car 
A and entered into a loan with Creation to finance the cost of Car B.
At this time, Mr B agreed with the dealership that the new financial agreement should settle 
the outstanding balance for Car A.
The customer contract with the dealership set out the following:
Vehicle sale (what we have called Car B) 
£11,999.00
Discount 
£479.96
Used vehicle purchase (what we have called Car A)
£5,700.00
Settlement
£8747.39
Creation Consumer Finance
£14,566.43
Cash paid 
£100.00
Balance 
£0.00
After completing this transaction, GMAC took a monthly repayment from Mr B. Mr B went to 
the dealership to ask why a payment had been taken. Mr B discovered the dealership had 
gone into administration. At this stage, Mr B says he contacted the administrators, Creation 
and GMAC and says he was told that the 14 day cooling off period had passed. He says he 
was told he would have to pay for both agreements (for Car A and Car B) as GMAC hadn't 
received a settlement payment.
Creation released Car A in October 2015 to be sold. The administrators confirmed with 
GMAC that Car A was sold for £4,440 from which commission and other costs needed to be 
deducted. The net proceeds of sale were £3,960 which was credited to Mr B's GMAC 
account.
After further correspondence Mr B understands that GMAC consider he is still liable for 
£6,451.51 for Car A. This figure is calculated as the amount outstanding on the agreement 
less Mr B’s payments and the sales proceeds plus £45 of outstanding fees and overdue 
charges.
Creation explained that it made payment to the dealership for the sum set out in the 
agreement, as agreed. The dealership then went into administration after payment had been 
received. Creation does not consider that it should be required to make any further 
payments as it has completed the requirements under the agreement. In addition, there is no 
fault with the goods provided (Car B) of which Mr B has taken delivery.
Our investigator who initially considered the complaint considered that the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 provided relevant remedies to this situation. In particular, that Creation was liable 
for a breach of contract by the dealership. Our investigator concluded that the agreement 
Ref: DRN1099328
2
confirmed that the dealership would be in receipt of the funds to cover the cost of Car B and 
also the outstanding liability to GMAC for Car A. The dealership had agreed to settle the 
finance agreement for Car A. In order to do this the dealership should have paid GMAC a 
proportion of funds once received, but this did not happen. The dealership went into 
administration. Our investigator considered that Creation was liable for the amount 
outstanding for Car A.
Our investigator recommended that Creation pay the outstanding balance to GMAC. 
Creation did not agree with this.
my provisional conclusions
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. My second provisional decision is 
attached to this decision. My overall decision did not change but I found it important to 
provide further details in regard to the points raised by Creation in response to my initial 
provisional decision and to allow time for further response if required. Mr B’s complaint 
against Creation is linked to his complaint against GMAC and the two cases were 
considered in parallel. 
In my provisional decisions I concluded in summary:

that although Creation had said the issue should have been resolved between it and 
GMAC this had not happened and Mr B had brought his complaints to this service so 
we were now required to consider these;

that it was likely that a court may find that Mr B could have a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act (s. 75). But even if this was not the case, I considered 
that the fair and reasonable outcome would be that Creation was liable because the 
dealership was acting on its behalf and did not settle Mr B's agreement for Car A as it 
said it would;

there was no suggestion that there was anything wrong with the car itself and Mr B 
took delivery of Car B. But, s. 75 allows a borrower to make a "like claim" against a 
lender in relation to any type of breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. In this instance, I thought the contract between Mr B and the dealership 
required the dealership to settle Mr B's outstanding liability under the finance 
agreement with GMAC using the loan from Creation and the sale proceeds from 
Car A;

Creation accepted that this case was covered by s. 56(1)(c) of the same act and I 
agreed. I said that this meant that if the dealership indicated it would pay off the 
previous finance, Creation would be treated as having indicated the same thing;

that Mr B should be put back in the position he would have been had this issue not 
occurred and so the outstanding liability on his GMAC agreement needed to be 
settled as well as the additional payments he made refunded. I saw evidence of 
payments made by Mr B of £213.33 on 30 May, 30 June, 14 August, 4 September 
and 30 September 2015, giving a total of five payments totalling £1,066.65; and

I confirmed the outstanding liability on Mr B's account. However, I also recommended 
in my provisional decision to GMAC that this amount be reduced to the £4,371.53 
Ref: DRN1099328
3
that was owing at the point the Car A was sold and proceeds applied to Mr B's 
account. 
Creation did not accept my provisional decision. It said that:

the case fell within s. 56 rather than s. 75 and that the references to s. 75 showed 
flawed logic;

the requirement for it to refund the payments Mr B made to GMAC after the 
agreement should have been settled was so irrational as to be Wednesbury 
unreasonable. It said GMAC should refund these payments;

there was a risk of double recovery whereby Mr B could receive a refund of the 
additional payments from both it and GMAC;

that the conclusion for Creation to settle the account with GMAC and that the matter 
was to be agreed between the parties was contradictory;

the decision was ultra vires because this service could not determine how two 
businesses resolve a dispute between them. It should only concern itself with the 
matters that affect Mr B. It said GMAC should close Mr B’s account and remove it 
from his credit file. It said what then happens to the outstanding balance was a 
matter for Creation and GMAC. 
Ms C said that GMAC had said that it would sort out the shortfall on his account with 
Creation but this did not happen.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have carefully considered both the 
information in this complaint and also the linked complaint from Mr B against GMAC. While 
the complaints have been looked at together and this informs the final decisions, it is 
important to note that this decision is about the complaint against Creation alone.
Before setting out my conclusions, I should make clear that it is my duty to resolve 
complaints on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable. My role is to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in each case based on the specific circumstances.
I note the concerns Creation has raised about references made to s. 75. I noted in my 
provisional decision that s. 75 can apply where a borrower enters into a transaction financed 
by a loan as a result of arrangements between the supplier of goods and the lender. In that 
case, a borrower who has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the 
supplier has a "like claim" against the lender. I noted that this seemed to be the situation in 
this case; however, ultimately, such findings would be for a Court to make. My remit is to 
resolve complaints on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.  
That aside, Creation has accepted that this case is covered by s. 56(1)(c) of the same act. s.
56 says that "antecedent negotiations" conducted by the "supplier" (that is, the dealership) 
are deemed to have been conducted as agent of the creditor as well as in the supplier’s 
actual capacity. That means that, if the dealership indicated it would pay off the previous 
finance, Creation is treated as having indicated the same thing. I agree with this logic. 
Ref: DRN1099328
4
Based on the information provided, I find that the dealership agreed to settle Mr B’s previous 
finance agreement with GMAC as part of his transaction for Car B. Having regard to the 
regulations, I think it’s fair and reasonable to require Creation to take responsibility for the 
dealership’s failure to do that.
I have accepted that Creation did not do anything wrong at this point and it did provide the 
finance under the agreement to the supplier. It is unfortunate for all parties that the 
dealership did not or could not transfer the funds to GMAC. However, it is not disputed that 
the dealership did not settle Mr B’s account with GMAC as it should have. In these 
circumstances I find that it is fair and reasonable to hold Creation responsible for this 
payment and not Mr B, the consumer.
Creation has said that requiring it to refund the additional payments Mr B made after his 
agreement should have been settled was irrational. Again, I note what Creation has said. 
However the payments were made after the time when the agreement should have been 
settled and I think it is fair that Mr B is refunded these. The payments he made reduced the 
outstanding liability on his agreement. Because I find that Creation is liable due to the failure 
of the dealer to settle Mr B’s agreement I think it reasonable that it also repays Mr B the 
money he paid which reduced this liability. 
I understand the point Creation has made in regard to double recovery. While this decision 
only relates to the actions Creation should take, it has been decided in parallel with the 
linked case Mr B has made against GMAC. In regard to the complaint against GMAC my 
provisional decision which it accepted did not require it to refund Mr B’s additional payments 
but did require it to reduce the outstanding balance of £4,371.53 being the amount owing at 
the point Car A was sold and proceeds applied to Mr B’s account.
Creation has said that this service cannot determine how two businesses resolve a dispute 
but instead should only consider matters relating to Mr B. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, I have not told the businesses how to resolve matters between them; however, it is 
relevant to note that Mr B has brought his complaint to this service about Creation (as well 
as a complaint against GMAC) because he was being pursued for an outstanding balance 
he did not think he should pay. The two matters are linked and in order to consider how to 
put Mr B back in the position he should be in, both businesses will need to act. I looked 
through the case notes relating to this issue and can see that Creation and GMAC had 
discussed the issue and a resolution was not found at that time. 
This decision is not telling Creation how to resolve the issue between it and GMAC but that I 
consider a resolution is required to ensure Mr B is no longer pursued for the amounts owing 
and that his credit file is adjusted to remove any adverse information in regard to this issue. 
Creation is not responsible for the information on Mr B’s credit file in regard to this issue but I 
do find it is responsible for the underlying problem that led to this complaint which was the 
failure of the dealership to settle Mr B’s agreement with GMAC. Because of this I continue to 
believe that the resolution set out in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable.
I agree with Mr B that he should not be liable for the outstanding balance and Creation has 
also agreed with this. 
Ref: DRN1099328
5
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mr B should be put back in the position he 
would have been had this issue not occurred. As I set out in my provisional decision, this 
means that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

settle the outstanding liability on Mr B’s agreement with GMAC, which I suggested 
should be the lower figure of £4,371.53 and which GMAC agreed. It should discuss 
the matter directly with GMAC to ensure that the outstanding liability is paid; and

pay Mr B the payments he made after the agreement should have been settled. 
Based on the information I have seen this totals £1,066.65. This is subject to 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2018.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099328
6
provisional decision
complaint
Mr B, represented by Ms C, complains that the finance he took out with Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should have been used in part to pay off his previous finance agreement but this did not happen.
Background
Mr B entered into a conditional sale agreement with GMAC in 2014 and acquired a car (Car A). In 
April 2015 Mr B decided to exchange Car A for another vehicle and acquired Car B from a dealership. 
He traded in Car A and entered into a loan to finance the cost of Car B.
At this time, Mr B agreed with the dealership that the new financial agreement should settle the 
outstanding balance for Car A.
The customer contract with the dealership set out the following:
Vehicle sale (what we have called Car B) 
£11,999.00
Discount 
£479.96
Used vehicle purchase (what we have called Car A)
£5,700.00
Settlement
£8747.39
Creation Consumer Finance
£14,566.43
Cash paid 
£100.00
Balance 
£0.00
After completing this transaction, GMAC took a monthly repayment from Mr B. Mr B went to the 
dealership to ask why a payment had been taken. Mr B discovered the dealership had gone into 
administration. At this stage, Mr B says he contacted the administrators, Creation and GMAC and 
says he was told that 14 day cooling off period had passed. He says he was told he would have to 
pay for both agreements (for Car A and Car B) as GMAC hadn’t received a settlement payment.
Creation released Car A in October 2015 to be sold. The administrators confirmed with GMAC that 
Car A was sold for £4,440 from which commission and other costs needed to be deducted. The net 
proceeds of sale were £3,960 which was credited to Mr B’s GMAC account.
After further correspondence Mr B understands that GMAC consider he is still liable for £6,451.51 for 
Car A.
Creation explained that it made payment to the dealership for the sum set out in the agreement, as 
agreed. The dealership then went into administration after payment had been received. Creation does 
not consider that it should be required to make any further payments as it has completed the 
requirements under the agreement. In addition, there is no fault with the goods provided (Car B) of 
which Mr B has taken delivery.
Our investigator who initially considered the complaint considered that the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
provided relevant remedies to this situation. In particular, that Creation was liable for a breach of 
contract by the dealership. The Investigator concluded that the agreement confirmed that the 
dealership would be in receipt of the funds for Car B and also the outstanding liability to GMAC for 
Car A. The dealership had agreed to settle the finance agreement for Car A. In order to do this the 
dealership should have paid GMAC a proportion of funds once received, but this did not happen. The 
dealership went into administration. The investigator considered that Creation was liable for the 
amount outstanding for Car A.
The investigator recommended that Creation pay the outstanding balance to GMAC, the finance 
provider for Car A, in the sum of £6,451.51.
Ref: DRN1099328
7
my initial provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. While I agreed with the investigator’s 
recommendation that Creation should pay Mr B’s outstanding labiality under his previous agreement, I 
also thought it should reimburse the payments Mr B made to GMAC after the agreement should have 
been settled.
My provisional decision explained that I thought a breach of contract had occurred as the dealership 
had not made the payment to the previous finance provider as it said it would. I considered it likely 
that a court may find that Mr B could have a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (s. 
75). In some cases, section 75 makes finance providers liable for a breach of contract in the same 
way a supplier would be. But in any event, even if this was not the case, I considered that the fair and 
reasonable outcome would be that Creation was liable because the dealership was acting on its 
behalf and did not settle Mr B’s agreement for Car A as it said it would.
I found that in order to put Mr B back in the position he would have been had this issue not occurred 
he needed the outstanding liability on his GMAC agreement to be settled as well as the additional 
payments he made refunded. Based on information I had seen it appeared that Mr B made five 
payments of £213.33 after the previous agreement should have been settled. These were made on 
30 May, 30 June, 14 August, 4 September and 30 September 2015 and totalled £1,066.65.
Creation did not agree with my provisional decision. It did not accept that it was liable under s. 75. It 
said that its agreement with Mr B was for the total sum of £14,466.43, which was made up of 
£11,519.04 to purchase the vehicle, plus £2,947.39 in respect of negative equity. It paid this to the 
dealership. It said that the finance statement issued by the dealership set out the total cash price of 
the vehicle plus the negative equity and there was no mention of the dealership’s undertaking to Mr B 
to settle his previous finance agreement.
Creation said that any negotiation or agreement relating to the settlement of the previous finance was 
antecedent to the agreements and should be considered under s. 56(1 )(c) of the consumer credit act.
It also said that GMAC would have been aware of the closure of the dealership. It said that Mr B’s car 
was sold at auction for £3,960 with the funds remitted to GMAC and credited to Mr B’s account. It said 
that any remaining balance was a matter to be determined between GMAC and Creation. However 
based on the notes of previous conversations between the parties a resolution had not been found.
In regard to the payments made by Mr B after the settlement should have occurred, Creation said that 
GMAC was wrong to take these payments and it should not be liable for the refund.
However I considered it fair these were refunded as they would not have been made had the 
dealership settled Mr B’s agreement for Car A when it said it would.
Creation has accepted the issues were not the fault of Mr B and said that the issues should be 
resolved between it and GMAC. It requested that this complaint and the complaint against GMAC are 
dealt with together. It did not accept it was liable and did not consider that it had not done anything 
wrong.
Creation did not accept that the amounts recorded in the provisional decision were correct.
my provisional conclusions
I am issuing a second provisional decision on this case. While my overall decision has not changed, I 
find it important to provide further details in regard to the points raised by Creation and to allow time 
for further response if required. I have also carried out a review of Mr B’s complaint against GMAC 
which is being dealt with in parallel.
Ref: DRN1099328
8
I have carefully considered both the information in this complaint and also the linked complaint from 
Mr B against GMAC. While the complaints can be looked at together and this informs the final 
decisions, it is important to note that this decision is only about the complaint against Creation alone.
I appreciate Creation’s comments that this issue should have been resolved between the two firms 
and that Mr B should not be liable. However, I also note that there have been discussions about this 
case between Creation and GMAC but a solution has not been achieved. In addition, as the firms 
seem to be unwilling to progress the matter this has resulted in complaints from Mr B against both 
firms.
Before setting out my conclusions, I should make clear that it is my duty to resolve complaints on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable, taking any relevant law into account. My role is to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in each case based on the specific circumstances.
Creation has made numerous points about its liability and the application of s. 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. It does not consider that it is applicable or relevant to this case. Having considered the 
matter at length I do not agree.
As I understand it Creations submissions on this point are:

Creation made payment to the dealership for the sum set out in the agreement. It has 
therefore discharged its contractual liabilities.

The dealership did not pass on the funds.

There is no fault with Car B; and

Mr B has taken delivery of Car B.
S. 75 can apply where a borrower enters into a transaction financed by a loan as a result of 
arrangements between the supplier of goods and the lender. In that case, a borrower who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier has a "like claim" against the lender. 
This seems to be the situation here. In this case:

The car dealership arranged the loan under pre-existing arrangements with Creation.

Mr B had a contract with the dealership for the sale of the car.

The contract fell within the relevant financial limits of s. 75.

The contract included the settlement of the previous financial agreement for Car A.
There’s no suggestion that there was anything wrong with the car itself and I accept that Mr B has 
taken delivery of Car B. But, the issue here is not with Car B - either its condition or its delivery. 8. 75 
allows a borrower to make a "like claim" against a lender in relation to any type of breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. It isn’t limited to claims about faulty goods. In this instance, I 
think the contract between Mr B and the dealership required the dealership to settle Mr B’s 
outstanding liability under the finance agreement with GMAC using the loan from Creation and the 
sale proceeds from Car A.
I note the comments made by Creation about what is set out in the agreement and that in the 
agreement it has with Mr B the settlement of the previous finance is not expressly mentioned. But, it 
seems clear to me that Mr B did not intend to find himself with one car and two loans to repay. I think 
there was a single transaction where Mr B agreed to buy Car B and the dealership agreed to accept 
Car A in part-exchange and settle the outstanding finance on Car A.
In relation to the agreement itself, I can see a negative equity amount is recorded. This is in relation to 
the transaction to settle the previous finance agreement with GMAC. I also note that the customer 
contract provided by the dealership lists the amounts as vehicle price £11,999 less discount £479.96 
less the amount for Mr B’s previous car (Car A) of £5,700 plus the settlement amount of £8,747.39. 
This gave a total of £14,466.43 and Mr B paid £100 cash. The agreement shows that there was an 
understanding that the dealership would settle the outstanding finance with GMAC as part of the 
Ref: DRN1099328
9
agreement for the sale of Car B. No other explanation has been provided for these sums in the 
agreement.
In addition, I can see that the dealership confirmed directly to GMAC that it would settle the 
outstanding finance "... on confirmation of pay out from Creation." It is clear that the dealership agreed 
with Mr B that it would settle the outstanding finance with GMAC. I accept of course that this wasn’t 
included in the sale documentation for the car - but that does not alter that these discussions 
ultimately formed part of the contract.
The dealership received the agreed funds from Mr B and from Creation. But it didn’t clear the previous 
finance with GMAC as it agreed and contracted to do. Having regard to s. 75, therefore, I think it 
would be fair to treat Creation as if it (as well as the dealership) had agreed to clear the previous 
finance.
But in any event, Creation appears to accept that this case is covered by s. 56(1 )(c) of the same act. 
8. 56 says that "antecedent negotiations" conducted by the "supplier" (that is, the dealership) are 
deemed to have been conducted as agent of the creditor as well as in the supplier’s actual capacity. 
That means that, if the dealership indicated it would pay off the previous finance, Creation is treated 
as having indicated the same thing. Creation appears to accept that s.56 would apply here - and I 
agree.
Based on the information provided, I find that the dealership agreed to settle Mr B’s previous finance 
agreement with GMAC as part of his transaction for Car B. Having regard to both s.75 and s. 56, I 
think it’s fair and reasonable to require Creation to take responsibility for the dealership’s failure to do 
that.
I have accepted that Creation did not do anything wrong at this point and it did provide the finance 
under the agreement to the supplier. It is unfortunate for all parties that the dealership did not or could 
not transfer the funds to GMAC. I consider it likely that a Court may consider this to have amounted to 
a breach of contract under the application of s. 75; However, even if I am wrong about that because 
the dealership then did not settle Mr B’s account with GMAC I find that it is fair and reasonable to hold 
Creation responsible for this payment and not Mr B, the consumer.
In these circumstances, it is then my role to decide what, if anything, Creation needs to do to put the 
situation right.
In this case Mr B was left with an outstanding liability on his previous agreement with GMAC, and 
made a few payments towards this liability after settlement should have occurred. This was while he 
was also making payments towards his new agreement. His credit file has also been affected.
Creation is not responsible for Mr B’s credit file in relation to the agreement held with GMAC. But, I do 
find that it is responsible for settling his outstanding liability. It should discuss this directly with GMAC 
and come to an arrangement which means Mr B’s account is settled and he has not further liability 
under his previous agreement.
I note the comments made by Creation about payments taken by GMAC and that they should not 
have taken payments after the settlement amount was due to be paid. I can see that an email was 
sent by the dealership to GMAC saying that Mr B’s agreement would be settled once the payment 
from Creation had been received. However, as the settlement amount was not paid, I accept that the 
agreement was still live. Mr B did make payments beyond the date of when the settlement was due to 
have been made which reduced his outstanding liability. I can see why he did this; he thought the 
financial businesses would sort this out between themselves, and in the meantime wanted to try to 
avoid adverse credit information being registered. I find that Creation is responsible for settling Mr B’s 
liability with GMAC, I also find it reasonable that it refunds the payments made by Mr B reducing this 
liability after the date when settlement should have occurred.
Ref: DRN1099328
10
Creation raised concerns about the numbers included in my previous provisional decision. I can 
confirm that the current outstanding liability on Mr B’s account, so far as I am aware, is £6,451.51. 
However, I have also recommended in my provisional decision to GMAC that this amount is reduced 
to the £4,371.53 that was owing at the point the car was sold and proceeds applied to Mr B’s account. 
The figures and the ultimate settlement amount, however, are matters for the businesses to discuss 
and conclude between themselves.
As previously set out I have seen evidence of payments made by Mr B of £213.33 on 30 May, 30 
June, 14 August, 4 September and 30 September 2015, giving a total of five payments totalling 
£1,066.65.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision - subject to anything I receive from either party by 4 October 2017 - is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint. Mr B should be put back in the position he would have been had this 
issue not occurred. This means that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

settle the outstanding liability on Mr B’s agreement with GMAC;

discuss the matter directly with GMAC, which I have suggested should be the lower figure of 
£4,371.53; however, the figures are a matter for the businesses; and

pay Mr B the payments he made after the agreement should have been settled. Based on the 
information I have seen this totals £1,066.65. This is subject to 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1099328
