K820x#9
complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited refused him credit and that it did 
not give proper consideration to his letter in which he provided additional information and 
asked it to reconsider its decision. He wants it to re-examine his application and the 
additional information and make a decision in his favour.
background
Mr G’s application for credit in relation to the purchase of a computer was rejected. He wrote 
to Creation Consumer Finance and gave more detail about his financial position and history. 
It responded to say that the main reason for the refusal was due to its internal lending rules 
and that it could not share with Mr G the specific reason for refusal in his case. Mr G was not 
satisfied with its response as he considered that it gave no indication that it had read his 
letter. He remains concerned that this refusal of credit will affect his credit rating. 
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said that whilst 
the decision could have been communicated to Mr G more effectively, it was for 
Creation Consumer Finance to decide whether it wished to grant credit. She also said that 
she did not believe that this incident in isolation would affect Mr G’s ability to obtain credit in 
the future but that he may come across the same issue of lack of information on his credit 
file. Mr G did not agree with the adjudicator’s view and responded to say that he did not 
consider that the business’ decision was reasonable and that it had not given him a good 
reason for it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general terms, a business can decide to whom and how it lends. The process by which it 
comes to its decision is commercially sensitive and I do not require Creation Consumer 
Finance to disclose it for the fair resolution of this complaint. It said that the main reason for 
refusing the application was due to it its internal lending rules. I consider that it gave Mr G 
sufficient reason for its decision. I do appreciate that Mr G would like to have more detail but 
I do not find Creation Consumer Finance at fault for failing to give more information than it 
did and I do not consider that it is appropriate to direct it to take the decision again. 
Any information recorded in Mr G’s credit file by Consumer Creation Finance must be 
accurate and I have seen no evidence that it is not. I agree with the adjudicator that, in 
isolation, this refusal of credit is unlikely to be a determining factor in any future application 
to another organisation. Mr G is able to ask the credit reference agency to add a notice of 
correction to his credit file. A notice of correction is an explanatory statement that can add 
information to explain circumstances about why an entry is on Mr G’s report. The additional 
information would then be available to anyone reviewing Mr G’s credit file and considering 
his creditworthiness.
Ref: DRN1441346
2
 my final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Mr G, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1441346
