K821x#9
complaint
Mr G complains that a loan given to him by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to buy a car was 
unaffordable.
background
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He concluded that Creation had 
enough information to have seen that the loan might have been unaffordable to Mr G but 
had ignored this. As a result, he found that Creation’s affordability assessment was 
inadequate and that the loan was unaffordable to Mr G. He recommended that Creation 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G; reduce Mr G’s outstanding liability to the 
amount remaining on his previous finance agreement; refund all payments made by Mr G 
after the car was declared SORN, plus interest; refund his deposit, plus interest; remove any 
adverse information from Mr G’s credit file; and agree a suitable repayment plan for the 
outstanding debt.
Creation did not accept those conclusions so the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold this complaint.
First, I regret that it has taken so long for this complaint to be considered by me and 
I apologise to both parties for this.
Mr G bought a used car from a local dealership in July 2010. He paid for this with a five year 
fixed-sum loan from Creation. Repayments to the loan were £99 per month for the first 12 
months, then £525.78 per month for the remaining four years. 
Mr G says that the dealership told him he would be able to change his car after 12 months 
so would not have to make these higher repayments. Given Mr G was paying around £150 
per month for his existing car, and his most recent salary was around £500 per month, I find 
this entirely credible. However, at the end of the first 12 months Mr G was unable to 
exchange his car with the dealership so his monthly repayments increased, making the loan 
unaffordable.
Creation says that “we do not have documents displaying [Mr G]’s income/expenditure 
information at the time of sale”. However, the finance proposal Mr G completed at that time 
gives his net weekly income as £184.67 – this means his net monthly income was 
approximately £800. So Mr G clearly provided the dealership with salary information that, 
given repayments would increase to over £500 after 12 months, should have raised 
concerns about whether the loan was sustainable.
In fact, Mr G was unemployed and receiving jobseeker’s allowance when he bought the car, 
although he had written confirmation of a new job beginning the following month. The salary 
he gave the dealership was based on expected full-time earnings from his new employer. As 
Ref: DRN1642368
2
it turned out, he was given fewer hours than anticipated so his earnings were considerably 
less than this. 
Creation argues that “a certain onus rests on the consumer to ensure that they can afford 
the monthly obligations they are agreeing to”. Whilst I wouldn’t disagree with this, this does 
not absolve Creation from its responsibility to conduct a “sound and proper credit 
assessment”, as required by the Finance and Leasing Association’s Lending Code. I am 
satisfied that Mr G provided sufficient information that should have prompted a more 
thorough assessment of whether he could afford the loan.
Furthermore, the Office of Fair Trading’s irresponsible lending guidance requires lenders to 
“take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to meet repayments 
under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner” (sustainable meaning “over the life of 
the credit agreement”). I find that, in this case, Creation failed to meet these requirements.
It follows that Creation should unwind the agreement and arrange for the car to be collected 
at no further cost to Mr G. 
Mr G owed £4,639.19 under his previous finance agreement when he bought the car. This 
was included in the new Creation loan and it would not be fair for me to ignore this. Creation 
should reduce Mr G’s liability to that amount, less the price Mr G got in part-exchange for his 
old car. This brings the outstanding amount for that previous agreement to £2,139.19. 
Creation should agree a suitable and affordable repayment plan with Mr G so that he is able 
to repay this.
Mr G has provided us with evidence that he declared the car SORN from 1 August 2011 and 
has not used the car since then. I consider it reasonable for Creation to refund any payments 
Mr G has made to the loan in the time he has not been using the car, plus interest. Creation 
should also refund the £100 deposit he paid for the car, again plus interest.
Finally, Creation should remove any adverse information it has registered on this account 
with any credit reference agencies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

arrange for the car to be collected from Mr G, at no further cost to him;

reduce Mr G’s outstanding debt to £2,139.19;

agree a suitable and affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the outstanding debt;

refund all Mr G’s payments to the account after the car was declared SORN on 
1 August 2011, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement;

refund Mr G’s £100 deposit, plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from 
27 July 2010 to the date of settlement; and

remove any adverse information it has registered about this agreement with any 
credit reference agencies.
If Creation considers that tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, 
it should provide Mr G with the appropriate tax deduction certificate so that he is able to 
claim a refund if appropriate.
Ref: DRN1642368
3
Simon Begley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1642368
