K821x#14
complaint
Mr P complains about bedroom furniture he bought which was funded by a fixed sum loan 
from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. He says it has not been fitted properly. 
background
Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in September 2014 to finance 
the purchase and installation of bedroom wardrobes. After they were fitted, Mr P noticed that 
they were not in line, screw holes had not been fitted, and some of the panels were 
damaged. 
Mr P complained to Creation. They have arranged four attempts to fix the wardrobes but 
they have not been successful. Creation has offered to pay Mr P £150 for the unsatisfactory 
service he has received. Mr P is not happy with this offer and brought a complaint to us to 
consider. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He considered that 
photos produced by Mr P show that the wardrobes have not been fitted properly. The 
adjudicator recommended the following:

The loan agreement is cancelled and Clydesdale arranges to collect the wardrobes

Clydesdale refunds 50% of the payments Mr P has made under the agreement

It pays him £150 for trouble and upset. 
Creation did not reply to the adjudicator’s view. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did for much the same reasons. 
The photos supplied by Mr P show that the wardrobe has not been fitted correctly. Attempts 
have been made to resolve the problem but they have not been successful. In the 
circumstances I consider that it is fair to allow Mr P to end the loan agreement. Mr P has had 
some use of the wardrobes so I agree with the adjudicator that a refund of 50% of the 
payments made to date is fair. 
Mr P has also experienced trouble and upset by reason of the faulty installation. I consider 
that the £150 offered by Creation is fair compensation for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement of it I order Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:

Cancel the loan agreement and collect the wardrobes at no cost to Mr P.

Refund 50% of the payments made by Mr P under the agreement

Pay Mr P £150 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2015.
Ref: DRN1268446
2
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1268446
