K821x#15
complaint
Mr G complains about the service provided to him by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“CCF”) in respect of his credit card account (“account”).
background 

On 15 September 2016 Mr G had £295.76 charged to his account for a foreign hotel 
stay.

On 23 September the charge of £295.76 was refunded to Mr G’s account.

On 23 October 2016 Mr G was recharged for his hotel stay. He was charged 
£324.81. The difference of £29.05 was due to a change in the exchange rate used by 
CCF between 15 September and 23 October.

Mr G queried the £324.81 transaction with CCF before questioning CCF’s right to 
have debited his account with that sum. He then asked for his concerns, and how 
they had been handled to date, to be treated as a “formal complaint”.

On 3 January 2017 CCF issued a final response letter to Mr G. In this response CCF 
confirmed that it had credited Mr G’s account with £29.05.
Unhappy with CCF’s response Mr G referred his complaint to our service for investigation.
Mr G’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators. In his view a payment of £25 
to Mr G, in addition to the account credit of £29.05, represented a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint.
CCF agreed with the investigator’s view but Mr G didn’t. Mr G said that £100 would be a 
more appropriate sum for CCF to have to pay him.
The investigator considered what Mr G said in response to his view but wasn’t persuaded to 
change his mind. Therefore the matter has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I can confirm that I’ve 
come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
There is also very little I can add to what has already been said.
Mr G appears to accept that he is liable for a hotel bill of £295.76. And following a credit to 
his account of £29.05 by CCF this is the liability he is left with. So all I need to decide in this 
case is what (if anything) represents a fair sum for CCF to have to pay Mr G for what he 
says was poor the handling of his initial concerns over the 23 October debit to his account 
and the later handling of his complaint.
Ref: DRN1484561
2
I’m satisfied that Mr G had to explain his concerns to CCW in late October on three separate 
occasions. But I’m also satisfied that having explained his concerns for a third time CCF 
dealt with them, and later his complaint, reasonably. I say this having seen that CCF emailed 
Mr G on 9 and 14 November and wrote to him on 14 November, 9 December and 3 January, 
the 3 January letter being a final response issued within the 8 weeks required by the 
regulator. I’ve also had regard to CCF’s internal and contemporaneous notes which show, in 
my view, that it had taken Mr G’s concerns and complaint seriously and was doing its best to 
resolve matters.
I appreciate that this matter has caused Mr G a degree of distress and inconvenience. But 
I’m not persuaded, given what I say above, that it warrants more than the £25 CCF has now 
agreed to pay.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
Mr G £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2017.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1484561
