K821x#15
complaint
Miss A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) gave her incorrect 
information about buying foreign currency with her supermarket credit card. Miss A also 
complains that Creation dealt with her complaint poorly.
background
Miss A has a cashback credit card issued by Creation that is connected to a supermarket. 
She was considering using her card to buy foreign currency, so contacted Creation to check 
if she’d get cashback on the purchase. Creation told her that she’d get 1% cashback and 
wouldn’t be charged a fee if she used her card in the supermarket connected to it.
Following the call Miss A bought foreign currency from a shop which wasn’t connected to the 
card. She didn’t receive any cashback and was charged a handling fee. She says she’d 
assumed she’d get 0.2% cashback as that’s what she normally gets on other purchases 
made outside of the supermarket. She also says she assumed she wouldn’t be charged a 
handling fee if she was getting cashback. So she complained to Creation.
Creation didn’t uphold Miss A’s complaint. They said that they hadn’t given Miss A incorrect 
information. They said that she hadn’t got cashback and had been charged a fee because 
she’d not used her card in the supermarket connected to it. Creation also said that this was 
set out in Miss A’s card’s terms and conditions. Miss A wasn’t happy with Creation’s 
response. Miss A was also unhappy that she’d been on the phone for a long time when she 
called Creation to complain and had heard someone singing in the background. She 
complained about the time she’d been on the phone and the singing and was unhappy that 
Creation had ignored this part of her complaint. So she complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong as he said they hadn’t given 
incorrect information. He also said we couldn’t look at the customer service part of the 
complaint. Miss A was unhappy with this response and asked for her complaint to be looked 
at by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my involvement, Creation has accepted that they should have told Miss A:
a) that she wouldn’t get any cashback even if she’d used her credit card to buy currency 
from the supermarket linked to her card; and
b) that she wouldn’t have been charged a fee either.
In other words, Miss A wouldn’t have got 1% cashback if she’d used her card to buy 
currency from the supermarket linked to her card as Creation had previously suggested. 
That’s important because what I have to decide is what Miss A would have done had she 
been given the correct information, and whether she’s made a loss as a result of being given 
incorrect information. 
Miss A is conscious of the cashback she receives. She says on a call with Creation that she 
tries to maximise the cashback she earns as it all adds up. She also called Creation 
Ref: DRN1259339
2
specifically to check if she’d receive cashback when buying currency. This suggests she was 
deciding whether or not it would be beneficial to buy currency using her credit card. It also 
suggests the answer to that question would be a big factor in her decision. Had she been 
told she wouldn’t receive any cashback if she used her credit card to buy currency, I think it’s 
more likely than not that she would have used her debit card to do so. Had she done so, she 
wouldn’t have been charged a fee. In other words, Miss A ended up paying a handling fee 
that she wouldn’t otherwise have paid because of the information Creation gave her. So I 
think it’s fair to tell Creation to refund this fee.
In their response to Miss A, Creation said that the terms and conditions of her card say when 
cashback is paid. I accept that this is the case. However when Miss A called customer 
services, she said she was calling because she found the terms and conditions confusing. In 
the circumstances, I think Miss A was entitled to rely on the information she was given. In 
other words, I don’t think it would be fair not to uphold the complaint because the correct 
information about what cashback Miss A would be charged was in the terms and conditions.
Miss A has complained about the service she received. In this case, because the complaint 
about the service she’s received is in relation to a complaint I’m looking it, I can consider 
how the complaint was handled. I accept that Miss A was on the phone for a long time and 
that it must have been frustrating to hear singing in the background given the nature of her 
call. However Miss A was on the phone for a long time because the call handler wanted to 
address all of her concerns and to ensure they listened to the previous call while she was on 
the phone. Although the singing in the background would’ve been frustrating, it’s difficult to 
control noise from other employees in a busy office. So I don’t agree Miss A received poor 
service from Creation when they were handling her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I’m requiring Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to refund Miss A the 
charge for buying foreign currency. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
 
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1259339
