K821x#14
complaint
Miss V complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold her a loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss V took out the PPI policy with a loan when she bought some electrical goods in October 
2008. Creation said that the sale took place in the store, and that it didn’t advise Miss V to 
take out the PPI. She borrowed £1,475 for the goods, and the PPI cost an additional 
£481.05. This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. So if Miss V repaid the loan within that 
time she wouldn’t pay interest. Otherwise the loan was set to be repaid over 36 months, with 
the payments including the PPI premium and a further £428.91 in interest on the premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss V’s complaint. He didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And he didn’t think Miss V would have bought the policy if it 
had.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Miss V was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss V’s complaint. This is because I agree with the adjudicator that 
Creation didn’t properly tell Miss V how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Miss V to work it 
out for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of 
the policy to be in the loan agreement.

There was a ‘statement of price’ which did set out the interest. But it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where I think Miss V would expect it to be. 
And I can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a store 
and her attention was on buying electrical items – not insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Miss V better understand what the policy was 
costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Miss V aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have had on the interest charged. If she didn’t 
repay the loan within the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 29.8%. This meant Miss V would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on 
the PPI cost for the first year; the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN1882923
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Miss V was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Miss V would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy - especially as she was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 

I don’t think Miss V would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Miss V’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Miss V borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was higher than it should have been 
and she paid more than she should have done each month. So she needs to get back the 
extra she has paid. 
So Creation should:
work out and pay Miss V the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would have paid each month without PPI;
add simple interest to the extra amount Miss V paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†);
if Miss V made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what 
Miss V received from what’s due to her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Miss V’s complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2015.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1882923
