K820x#14
complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is chasing him for a debt he says he 
doesn’t owe. It has passed his account to a debt collection agency. He wants the account 
balance written off and his credit file amended.
background
Mr L bought a television on a “buy now pay later” arrangement. He signed a fixed sum loan 
agreement on 10 November 2012 which required him to either:

Make 36 monthly payments of £22.91 starting on 17 May 2013; or

Pay £558.70 on or before 10 May 2013 (the “special offer date”) and avoid all interest 
charges.
Mr L missed the special offer date but says that ten days later he checked the balance online 
and made a payment of £593. He’d moved house but didn’t tell Creation because he thought 
he’d settled the account and it would be closed. 
The account wasn’t settled and it fell into arrears in July 2015, Creation tried, unsuccessfully, 
to contact Mr L to seek repayment of the outstanding amount and then passed his account 
to a debt collection agency.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Creation hadn’t done anything wrong and that Mr L was liable to repay the outstanding 
balance on the account.
Mr L didn’t agree. He said, in summary, that:

The online balance on the day he made his payment should have been the amount he 
needed to pay to close the account.

It took Creation too long to contact him.

Creation hasn’t been able to explain why the sum quoted online wasn’t the correct 
redemption figure.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L didn’t meet the “special offer date”. He says he thought the balance showing online was 
the early settlement figure and that when he paid it the account would be closed. Creation 
hasn’t been able to say how the figure Mr L says he saw online was calculated. But the 
settlement figure would’ve been higher.
Ref: DRN1747881
2
Whilst I understand Mr L thought he’d paid all that he owed, he hadn’t asked for an early 
settlement figure and he didn’t receive any confirmation that his account had been closed. 
Under the terms of the fixed sum loan agreement, because he’d missed the “special offer 
date”, he was due to pay £22.91 a month for 36 months. He failed to do this. The account 
didn’t fall into arrears until July 2015, because of the lump sum payment he’d made. When 
Creation tried to contact him, it couldn’t reach him. Mr L had moved house around two 
weeks before he made the lump sum payment and didn’t tell Creation. I can see why he 
thought he didn’t need to do this. But this led to the delay in Creation being able to 
successfully contact him. 
I do sympathise with Mr L – clearly he thought he’d settled the account. But he hasn’t made 
the payments due under the terms of the agreement and I don’t find there is any obligation 
on Creation to write off the balance he owes. It tried to contact him when the account fell into 
arrears using the contact details Mr L provided when he opened the account.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2016.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1747881
