K822x
complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to send her the annual 
statements on her account. She is unhappy that they have not provided her with copies of 
her statements.
background 
Miss B entered a fixed loan agreement with Creation to purchase a car in April 2010. In May 
2014 Miss B contacted Creation to advise that she had not received any account statements 
since she entered the agreement. Creation said that her statements were automatically 
issued annually and it did not uphold her complaint.
Following discussions with our adjudicator Creation offered to settle this complaint, by 
paying Miss B £30 for any inconvenience caused and providing a letter confirming the 
outstanding balance and settlement figure. Our adjudicator considered that the complaint 
should not succeed. She was of the view that Creation’s offer was reasonable resolution to 
the complaint.
Miss B disagrees with the adjudicator’s recommendation and requested that her complaint is 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint. 
Miss B says that she did not receive any statements on her account; she continued to make 
her monthly payments and did not pursue the matter of the missing statements for four 
years. Creation say that Miss B’s statements would have been automatically issued every 
year on 26th April. I am satisfied that Creation held the correct address for Miss B during this 
period.
Creation has been unable to provide evidence from its system to confirm that the statements 
were issued. Whilst I am unable to say with certainty whether or not the statements were 
issued, Creation has offered to settle this complaint. Therefore the question I must consider 
is whether its offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I am of the view that the offer of settlement by Creation is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
the complaint. It has provided screenshots of the account, agreed to provide a letter with the 
outstanding balance and settlement figure and has also offered to pay £30 for any 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
Whilst I appreciate that Miss B may not consider £30 to be adequate compensation. I have 
not seen any evidence of any financial loss caused to Miss B as a result of the missing 
statements. Nor does it appear that Miss B suffered significant distress or inconvenience, as 
she did not appear to notice that she had not been receiving the statements for four years. 
Whilst I consider that it would have been more helpful if Creation had provided Miss B with 
copies of the statements, rather than screenshots of the account. Creation has explained 
that it is unable to reproduce copies of previous statements; and I am satisfied that that the 
Ref: DRN1694380
2
account screenshots provide all the information Miss B would have received in her previous 
statements, albeit in a different format.
 
For the reasons above, I do not consider I have sufficient grounds to order Creation to do 
anything above what they have offered to do to settle this complaint. I therefore leave it to 
Miss B to decide whether she wishes to accept Creation’s offer or not.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required 
to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 22 January 2015.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1694380
