K821x#15
Complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, (‘Creation’), 
following her claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background
In 2015, Home Energy and Lifestyle Management Ltd (‘HELMs’), a company that supplied 
and installed solar panel systems contacted Ms M. Following a meeting at her home, Ms M 
agreed to enter into a contract with HELMs for it to supply and install a solar panel system. 
To fund this she also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. 
The solar panels were installed in August 2015.
In October 2016, Ms M, via this Service, made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA to 
Creation. She said HELMs had told her that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than offset by the savings and the feed-in-tariff 
(‘FIT’) income. But that hadn’t happened. When Ms M realised this she had transferred the 
outstanding loan balance to a credit card with a 0% preferential rate period. She repaid the 
full amount within the 0% period.
Creation replied and said the panels were slightly outperforming the estimates provided by 
HELMs and didn’t uphold her complaint. Unhappy with this, Ms M asked this Service to 
consider her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought that Ms M’s complaint 
wasn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but that they were misrepresented to be 
self-funding. So she thought that Creation should remove the effect of that 
misrepresentation, which would put right the financial impact to Ms M over the term of the 
loan. 
To put things right she said that Creation should work out the potential savings and income 
to Ms M over the 10 year term of the loan. It should then rework the loan such that she 
would pay no more than that amount over that term and refund any overpayments with 8% 
simple interest.
Ms M had incurred a charge when she used it to pay off the loan balance. And to enable her 
to pay off the outstanding balance within the preferential rate period, she had paid money 
that she normally would’ve put into savings each month for home improvements and buying 
a car. 
The investigator recommended Creation refund the charge she had incurred on her credit 
card plus 8% interest. They also recommended that Creation refund 8% interest on the 
monthly payments Ms M had made to her credit card above what was her previous 
contractual monthly payment on her 10 year term loan.
Ms M accepted what the investigator set out to put things rights. Creation agreed in part. It 
agreed to rework the loan as the investigator had set out. It didn’t agree that it:

 should refund the charge incurred on the credit card and the associated 8%, or;

 refund 8% interest on the monthly payments Ms M had made to her credit card 
above her contractual monthly payment on her 10 year term Creation loan. 
Ref: DRN1697955
2
Creation asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and issue a final decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have agreed with the investigators view that to put things right Creation should 
work out the potential savings to Ms M over the 10 year term of the loan. And it should then 
rework the loan so that Ms M would pay no more than that amount over the 10 year term 
and refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest. I’ve considered the assumptions and 
methodology that Creation will use to calculate this approach. 
These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. Based on the Energy Savings Trust’s data 
I’m satisfied that this is reasonable. I think this as it would take into account changing 
consumer occupancy habits over the lifetime of the solar panel system.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions Creation has used such as the electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
they don’t seem unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example 
the actual average RPI for the last 4 years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure.
I’ve looked at whether Creation should refund the charge Ms M incurred when she used a 
credit card to repay the loan and whether it should refund 8% interest on the monthly 
payments Ms M made to her credit card above her contractual monthly payment on her 10 
year term loan.
If we think a business, in this case Creation, has done something wrong, this Service would 
normally look to put the consumer, in this case Ms M, back in the position she would’ve been 
in if things had happened as they should. And, if we decide a consumer has been out of 
pocket, due to the businesses error, we ask the business to pay interest on top of any 
money award. This is to recognise that the consumer has been deprived of their money.
Creation has said that it was Ms M’s choice to pay more to her credit card on a monthly 
basis as she wanted to split the payments over the interest free period. And because she 
made that decision she wouldn’t have been in receipt of the additional money to put into 
savings, and therefore 8% interest shouldn’t be paid. In essence, it is saying that Ms M 
wasn’t deprived of the money. It also said that it was Ms M’s choice to take out the credit 
card, and incur the charge for using it to pay off the loan balance. And this is why it felt it 
shouldn’t refund the charge or 8% interest on this amount.
Ms M has told this Service that she decided to transfer the outstanding loan balance to a 
credit card, with a 0% introductory offer, when she received her first FIT payment. She said 
that at this point she became concerned that the monthly loan repayments wouldn’t be offset 
by the FIT income or the savings from the solar panels. 
I accept that Ms M could’ve paid less each month towards the outstanding balance of her 
credit card. And that this would’ve meant that she would have eventually incurred interest or 
had to find another credit card with a similar introductory offer to transfer any outstanding 
balance to. But I can understand why Ms M didn’t do this. There would’ve been no 
guarantee that there would’ve been a similar introductory offer available or that her 
application, if one did, would’ve been accepted. And based on this, I’m satisfied that it was 
Ref: DRN1697955
3
Ms M choice to pay more towards the outstanding balance on the credit card, rather than put 
that money into a savings account. 
But I’ve also taken into account that the reason Ms M was placed in this position was due to 
the misrepresentation made by HELMs that the solar panels would be self-funding. And if 
the solar panels had performed as Ms M had expected, and been led to believe they would, 
I’m satisfied she wouldn’t have taken out a credit card to clear the loan balance. This means 
she wouldn’t have needed to pay more each month to clear the balance within the 0% 
introductory offer. Therefore, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I conclude that 
Ms M was deprived of the money she paid monthly towards her credit card that was above 
her contractual loan payment. So, like the investigator, I think Creation should pay 8% 
simple interest on the difference between Ms M’s contractual monthly loan payment and the 
amount she paid towards her credit card from the date the payments were made to date of 
settlement.
For avoidance of any confusion:
Ms M’s contractual monthly loan payment – X (I understand this to have been £103.35)
Ms M’s monthly payment towards her credit card – Y (to be obtained from Ms M’s credit card 
statements)
Difference between the two payments – Z (Y-X)
Creation should pay Ms M 8% simple interest on the difference between the two payments 
(Z). To allow Creation to calculate the difference between the two payments Ms M should 
provide it with her credit card statements. If Ms M is charged by her credit card provider for 
any duplicate statements I consider it fair that Creation covers the cost of this.
As I’m satisfied that it was the misrepresentation made by HELMs led to Ms M transferring 
her loan balance to a credit card I also conclude that Creation should refund the fee Ms M 
incurred for doing this.
I also think Creation should pay Ms M £100 to recognise the trouble and upset that’s been 
caused. This is because The Information Commissioner’s Office (‘ICO’) had found that 
HELMs had been carrying out automated marketing calls in relation to ‘free’ solar panels. I 
think Creation should have taken this information, available in the public domain, into 
account when reviewing Ms M’s complaint. I’m satisfied that if it had done so, it would have 
upheld Ms M’s complaint.  
Ref: DRN1697955
4
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. To put things right it should:

Refund the fee Ms M incurred on her credit card when she used it clear her 
outstanding loan balance. It should also pay 8% simple interest* from the date Ms M 
made the payment to date of settlement.

If Ms M incurs a fee to provide duplicate statement it should cover the cost of these.

Work out the difference between Ms M’s contractual loan repayment and the monthly 
payments made towards her credit card. It should then pay 8% simple interest* on 
the difference from the date Ms M made the payment to date of settlement.

Pay Ms M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms M how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Ms M a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN1697955
