K821x#15
complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to her, when she took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mrs P bought a sofa in a shop. She took out a loan to pay for it. At the same time 
she bought a single premium PPI policy, the cost of which was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. This meant Mrs P wouldn’t pay interest 
if she paid off the credit within that time. Otherwise, she’d pay interest over the remaining 36 
months of the loan, including on the premium for the PPI policy.
Mrs P has raised various issues about how the PPI was sold. In particular, she complains 
that the cost and benefits of the PPI weren’t explained to her, and that she felt pressured by 
the sales assistant into agreeing to it. 
Our adjudicators thought Mrs P’s complaint should be upheld. They didn’t think Creation had 
explained to her clearly enough how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mrs P 
would have bought the policy if Creation had done this.
But Creation disagrees. It says the documents Mrs P was given were enough to make her 
aware of what the policy cost. So the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs P’s case.
For the reasons I’ve explained below, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs P’s complaint.
Creation was responsible for pointing out the cost and key features of the PPI to Mrs P in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading. And I’ve looked particularly at what Mrs P was 
told about the cost. I don’t have any notes of the discussion in the shop, but I’ve read the 
documents I’ve been given, which include the credit agreement that she signed.
That agreement told Mrs P the amount of the PPI premium. But it didn’t show the interest on 
that premium as a separate figure, or tell her the total cost of the PPI. In my view, she was 
entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the PPI to be made clear in 
the agreement – and it wasn’t.
And in my view the agreement didn’t make clear enough the effect the ‘buy now pay later’ 
period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay the loan off during the first 12 
months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at a rate of 29.8%. This 
meant Mrs P would pay a large amount of interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the 
only benefit she’d got from it was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN1645972
2
I’ve also seen a policy summary, which Creation says she was given, that included a 
statement of price. But I can’t be sure whether she was given this document, and if so when 
– or whether she had a reasonable chance to read it carefully before she bought the PPI. 
I accept that this document, if Mrs P had it, did tell her the amount of the interest she’d have 
to pay on the PPI premium, if she didn’t pay off the loan inside 12 months. And it set out the 
total cost of the PPI. But this was towards the end of the summary. It wasn’t highlighted or 
easy to find, and wasn’t where Mrs P might reasonably have expected it to be. 
So I don’t know whether this information was drawn clearly to her attention, particularly as 
she was in a shop and her main focus was on buying a sofa, not on buying insurance. And 
Mrs P has told us she felt pressured by the sales assistant to take the PPI out.
The interest on the PPI was almost as much as the premium itself. And the total cost of the 
policy was also relatively high, compared to the modest sum Mrs P was borrowing. So I think 
Mrs P would’ve seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the PPI.
I note too that the paperwork she was given didn’t set out the monthly cost of the policy. This 
would have been good practice, and might’ve helped Mrs P to understand what the policy 
was costing her.
So I agree with our adjudicators that Creation didn’t tell Mrs P clearly enough how much the 
policy would cost, before she bought it. I don’t think Mrs P would’ve properly understood the 
effect of the ‘buy now pay later’ period on the interest payable, and the total cost of the PPI. 
And based on the information I’ve got, on balance I don’t think Mrs P would have bought the 
policy if she’d been made fully aware how much it was going to cost her. I say that 
particularly as Mrs P has said she didn’t feel she really needed the PPI, and says she 
could’ve ‘easily afforded’ the repayments on the loan even if she wasn’t working. 
So overall, I think it’s fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs P’s complaint. Mrs P has lost out 
because of what Creation did wrong, so it needs to put things right.
putting things right
I’m told the loan has been paid off and the PPI has ended. But Mrs P borrowed extra to pay 
for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and she paid more than she 
should’ve each month. So Mrs P needs to get back the extra she’s paid (allowing for any 
partial refund of PPI premium she may already have had).
So Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs P the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs P paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN1645972
3
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve set out, I uphold Mrs P’s complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is to pay her the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2015..
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1645972
