K820x#14
complaint
Miss T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under Section 75.
background
In August 2018 Miss T purchased a sofa from a retailer and entered into a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement with Creation. The term of the agreement was 48 months with monthly 
repayments of £40.43.
When Miss T purchased the sofa the retailer told her it was made to order. Miss T provided 
measurements of her living room.
When the sofa was delivered Miss T noticed it wasn’t what she’d ordered. The delivery driver 
said he couldn’t take it back so Miss T contacted the retailer who advised her to go into the 
store and choose a different sofa.
When Miss T visited the retailer, it told her it couldn’t help and asked her to return another 
day. Miss T wasn’t happy about this and complained to Creation.
Creation responded and said it didn’t uphold the complaint because Miss T had been offered 
a re-selection.
Miss T wasn’t happy with the response. She cancelled her direct debit and complained to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought there had been a breach of contract 
because the wrong sofa was delivered. She didn’t think the offer of re-selection was 
reasonable because it would take 12 weeks to make and deliver an alternative sofa.
Creation didn’t agree. It provided information fro the retailer who said there was no issue 
with the sofa and that the store hadn’t made an error with the order.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Miss T’s complaint against Creation, I 
would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and 
that Creation’s response to the claim under section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that the goods need to be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as 
described. If this isn’t the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Miss T says she ordered an L shaped sofa but that a curved sofa was delivered which 
wouldn’t fit through her door. The retailer has said that it delivered the sofa that Miss T 
ordered.
Ref: DRN1773609
2
Miss T has said that she provided the measurements of her living room to the retailers at its 
request. This hasn’t been disputed by the retailer. I can also see that after the sofa was 
delivered, the retailer offered Miss T the option to re-select an alternative sofa. I don’t think 
the retailer would’ve done this if the correct sofa had been delivered.
On balance I’m persuaded that the wrong sofa was delivered. The sofa wasn’t as described 
at the time when Miss T placed the order, so I’m satisfied there’s been a breach of contract.
In these circumstances, I’d expect the finance provider to put things right as if the breach 
hadn’t occurred. Creation has said that the offer made by the retailer to re-select an 
alternative sofa was reasonable. I disagree. The information provided suggests that an 
alternative sofa would have taken several weeks to make and deliver. I don’t think it’s 
reasonable to expect Miss T to be without the use of a sofa for this length of time.
Weighing everything up, I think Miss T should be allowed to cancel the agreement. She’s 
already returned the incorrect sofa at her own cost. These costs, together with any payments 
she’s made under the agreement, should be refunded because she hasn’t had any use of 
the sofa.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay

Return all payments made by Miss t under the agreement

Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Miss T’s credit file

Refund Miss T’s costs of returning the sofa of £80
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1773609
