K822x
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
Mr W was contacted by a company. I’ll refer to it as ‘P’, which supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a meeting at his home, Mr W agreed to enter into a contract with P 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £10,800. To fund this he also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr W made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA, via his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr W that the solar panels would be ‘self-funding’ and 
that his monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) 
income as well as any savings he’d make by using the electricity generated by the panels 
rather than buying it from his energy provider. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, his 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher than any income and savings he had made.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t have enough information to conclude 
whether the benefits of the solar panels had been misrepresented to Mr W. Because of this, 
it didn’t uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr W referred his complaint to 
our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had worked out the potential income and savings to Mr W over the term 
of the loan. It went on to say that it would restructure the loan to ensure that he would pay no 
more than this over the original 10 year loan term. As Mr W had refinanced his loan, 
Creation’s offer was to refund him around £7,600. This was made up of any overpayments 
Mr W had made as well as 8% simple interest on those overpayments. Creation also offered 
to pay Mr W £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators looked into the offer put forward by Creation. She felt its offer to 
make the solar panel system self-funding was fair. She also recommended that Creation 
refund Mr W a proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan when he refinanced the 
Creation loan. 
Mr W, via his representative, accepted the investigator’s proposal. 
Creation didn’t reply, so the case has been passed to me to review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that he was cold-called and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the solar 
panel system would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mr W dispute that P 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
Ref: DRN1420085
2
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
Self-funding offer
I’ve considered whether it would be fair to put Mr W back in the position he would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. Rather, I think the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr W in a position where the solar panels are self-funding over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing him to keep the panels, I’m satisfied that he will 
likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.
I’ve carefully considered the methodology that Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel system. This methodology is based on the 
actual performance and estimated future performance of Mr W’s solar panels.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr W’s solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone is at home and able to use, 
or self-consume, the electricity generated by their solar panels. It is self-evident that 
determining an exact figure over the term of the loan is difficult. I’ve also considered the 
other assumptions used by Creation. These include electricity price inflation, the degradation 
rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that these appear 
reasonable. As an example, the actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to 
be far from the assumed figure. In summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have 
been used by Creation provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
For the reasons given above, I’m satisfied that Creation’s offer to make the solar panel 
system self-funding over the original term of the loan is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Refinanced loan
Mr W has refinanced his Creation loan with a new lender. At the time he did this he also 
borrowed some additional money for a new purchase. He has supplied a loan agreement to 
support this.
Our investigator thought that Creation, in addition to its offer to make the panels self-funding, 
should also refund Mr W the proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan that 
related to the amount he used to pay off his Creation loan.
I’ve thought carefully on this point. Mr W agreed to enter into the contract with P on the basis 
that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and any savings 
associated by using the electricity generated by his panels rather than buying it from his 
energy provider. And neither Creation nor Mr W disputes that P had misrepresented the 
benefits of the solar panels at the time Mr W entered into the contract. 
I’m satisfied that if Mr W’s solar panel system had been self-funding, it is unlikely that he 
would have refinanced the Creation loan and therefore incurred the additional interest he 
was charged. This is because the benefits he would have received from his solar panels 
Ref: DRN1420085
3
would have been in line with what he would have expected i.e. sufficient to cover his monthly 
loan repayments. 
As this didn’t happen, Mr W refinanced his Creation loan at a lower rate to mitigate his 
losses as well as borrowing additional funds for a separate purchase. Therefore, I’m satisfied 
that the additional interest he has been charged forms part of the overall cost of the solar 
panel system and he should be refunded this in addition to the self-funding offer.
As the solar panel system wasn’t self-funding Mr W has been charged additional interest. 
So, I’m satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Creation to refund him the proportion of 
interest he was charged on the amount he borrowed to pay off the Creation loan for the 
reason I have explained above.
Summary
In summary, I’m satisfied that Creation’s offer to make Mr W’s solar panels self-funding is 
fair. In addition to this I am satisfied that he has incurred additional costs through the interest 
he was charged when he refinanced the Creation loan and that Creation should refund in 
addition to its self-funding offer.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means his complaint should have been upheld. The fact that this 
didn’t happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and I’ll consequently make an 
award of £100 to cover this.
Ref: DRN1420085
4
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr W’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

allow Mr W to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr W from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr W’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments made from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of the settlement,

refund Mr W the proportion of interest that he was charged on the amount he 
borrowed to refinance his Creation loan; and,

pay Mr W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much it has taken off. It 
should also provide him with a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs. 
Ref: DRN1420085
