K821x#14
complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t upheld her section 75 claim.
background
Mrs M says she bought a burglar alarm and monitoring service in 2009. She did so with the 
help of finance from Creation Consumer Finance.
Mrs M says the company that was responsible for the monitoring went into liquidation in 
2011. Mrs M says her alarm was no longer monitored after this happened.
Mrs M says she stopped repaying Creation Consumer Finance as she couldn’t afford to 
carry on paying for a service she wasn’t receiving. This was in 2012. Creation Consumer 
Finance defaulted Mrs M’s account and appointed debt collectors.
Mrs M complained to Creation Consumer Finance in 2014 saying that her alarm was no 
longer being monitored. Mrs M said that this was a breach of contract and that Creation 
Consumer Finance was liable for this under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Creation Consumer Finance investigated Mrs M’s complaint but didn’t uphold it. It said that it 
wasn’t liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act as the monitoring was a free 
service. Mrs M, who is represented by a third party, disagreed and complained to us.
Our adjudicator recommended that Mrs M’s complaint be upheld as he didn’t agree that the 
monitoring was a free service. He recommended that Creation Consumer Finance refund the 
payments Mrs M had made since the company that had been monitoring the alarm had gone 
into liquidation. He also recommended that Creation Consumer Finance remove any 
adverse information it had registered against Mrs M and recall her account from its debt 
collector. Finally he recommended that Creation Consumer Finance pay Mrs £150 in 
compensation for the distress it had caused her.
Creation Consumer Finance disagreed with our adjudicator’s recommendations. So I 
reviewed this complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance says that the monitoring was a free service. I’ve seen a 
handwritten note on Mrs M’s credit agreement that suggests this was the case. However, 
I’ve also seen a copy of the sales invoice Mrs M received. This suggests that the contract 
was for a burglar alarm and five years monitoring and maintenance. Mrs M’s evidence, 
which I accept, is also consistent with this. On balance, I’m satisfied that the monitoring 
wasn’t a free service. It follows that the company that supplied the alarm and monitored it 
breached its contract with Mrs M when it went into liquidation in March 2011. Creation 
Consumer Finance is liable for that breach under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
Given the above, I agree with our adjudicator that Creation Consumer Finance should refund 
all the payments Mrs M made after March 2011 and remove the adverse information it has 
registered against her. I also agree that it should pay Mrs M compensation for the distress it 
Ref: DRN1820261
2
has caused. I’m satisfied, however, that the distress has been significant. Mrs M is an elderly 
lady who couldn’t afford to carry on paying £40 a month for a monitoring service she wasn’t 
receiving. Creation Consumer Finance should have dealt with her complaint quicker. It 
caused Mrs M considerable distress appointing a debt collector to recover the outstanding 
balance on the agreement when it should have been refunding her payments instead. I feel 
an award of £300 is more appropriate in these circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:

to refund the payments Mrs M has made since March 2011 together with interest at a 
rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the payments were received till the date 
of settlement;

to recall Mrs M’s account from the debt collector it has appointed and write off the 
remaining balance on her account;

to remove any adverse information it has registered against Mrs M since March 
2011; and

to pay Mrs M £300 in compensation for the distress it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2015.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1820261
