K821x#15
complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (“PPI”) by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) when she took out a loan to buy electrical items.
background
Mrs M took out a loan with Creation in 2005 to buy two television sets and bought a 
single-premium PPI policy at the same time. 
The PPI would’ve covered Mrs M’s repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she’d had to 
go into hospital for an extended period. It also would’ve paid £2000 if Mrs M had lost the use 
of a limb or eye, and would’ve paid off the outstanding balance of the loan if Mrs M died. The 
cost of the policy was added to the loan and Mrs M paid interest on it.
Mrs M complains that she didn’t need the cover and that she didn’t know it had been sold to 
her.
The adjudicator thought that Mrs M’s complaint should be upheld. Creation disagree, so Mrs 
M’s complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account when deciding this 
case.
I’ve seen a copy of Mrs M’s loan agreement and I can see that a box has been ticked to opt 
for PPI and Mrs M has signed directly underneath. So I think it’s more likely than not that  at 
the time she did agree to the cover being added. However, I’m upholding Mrs M’s complaint 
for a different reason. I’ll explain why.
Creation say that they didn’t recommend PPI to Mrs M. However, they still had to give Mrs M 
clear, fair and non-misleading information about the main features of the policy. And looking 
at the documents I’ve seen I don’t think the full cost of PPI was made clear enough to Mrs M.
The credit agreement did show the PPI premium that was added to the loan and it did show 
the total cost of the policy over the term of the loan. However, the interest charged on it 
wasn’t set out separately here. Instead, it was set out as part of a ‘Statement of Price’ 
document. 
But this statement of price was at the end of several pages of the policy summary and I don’t 
think Mrs M would’ve thought to look here for information which more reasonably should’ve 
been included in the credit agreement. So I don’t think Creation presented this important 
information to Mrs M clearly enough.
If Creation had made it clearer to Mrs M how much interest she was paying for PPI, I don’t 
think she would’ve taken it .The interest amount was more than the PPI premium itself and 
the PPI including interest cost more than the televisions that Mrs M was buying. 
Ref: DRN1540978
2
This was a very expensive policy with very limited benefits. Mrs M was borrowing a relatively 
small sum and I don’t think she’d have wanted to protect that if she’d properly understood 
what it would cost.
putting things right
Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Mrs M needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs M the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs M paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I’m upholding Mrs M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2016.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1540978
