K822x
complaint
Mr H complains about searches on his credit file carried out by Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd (Creation).
background 
Mr H says he applied to Creation to check if he was eligible for credit in July 2018. He says it 
should’ve been a soft search that wouldn’t affect his credit file. But a hard search was carried 
out which contained incorrect details and did appear on his credit file. He also says a soft 
search was carried out using his incorrect name. Mr H says Creation said it would only use 
one Credit Reference Agency (CRA) but reported the search to other ones.
Creation says applications were made in 2017 and again in 2018. It says the 2018 
application resulted in a hard search of Mr H’s credit file and this was correctly reported to 
the CRA’s. It also says it does report to more than one CRA and doesn’t indicate on its 
application form that it only uses one CRA.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. She thought Creation 
should remove the incorrect data about Mr H’s date of birth from his credit file. But she didn’t 
think the issue about the incorrect name was important as this was only a soft search. She 
thought it was up to Creation to decide which CRA’s it reported information to and didn’t 
think Mr H had been told it would only report to one CRA.
Creation has agreed to amend Mr H’s credit file about the date of birth.
Mr H doesn’t accept that view and says Creation’s website says it uses one CRA. He says 
Creation has fraudulently used his information and shouldn’t have conducted a full or hard 
search on his credit file. He would like compensation for what’s happened and doesn’t 
believe Creation has acted fairly.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I’ve come to the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator for similar reasons. I realise Mr H will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I’ve looked at Creation’s records and the e-mail Mr H sent it, in which he says he was 
expecting goods from it. SoI think it likely that Mr H has applied for credit which resulted in a 
hard search on his credit file. I appreciate Mr H says he believed that he was applying for 
credit that wouldn’t affect his credit file- a soft search. But I think, as he was expecting a 
product to be sent to him, that a full application must have either been made after the soft 
search or in place of it. So I don’t think Creation has made a mistake by recording details of 
that application on his credit file in the way in which it has.
I appreciate Mr H also says that Creation said it would only record information with one CRA. 
But I’m satisfied the credit application makes clear that Creation will share the information 
with the CRA’s and not just one. I’m also satisfied it’s up to Creation to make a commercial 
decision on these sorts of issues and I make it clear I’ve not seen any evidence that it said it 
would only report to one CRA. I’ve also not seen any evidence that Creation has been 
involved in a cover up as Mr H believes.
Ref: DRN1951751
2
There is no question that Mr H’s date of birth was incorrectly recorded on his credit file by 
Creation. But I think it’s fairly agreed to amend that information in line with the investigator’s 
recommendation and I don’t that that mistake justifies any compensation. I can see that Mr 
H’s name has been incorrectly recorded but I think it’s unclear why and it only appears on 
the soft search. So for those reasons I can’t fairly order Creation to do anything about that 
issue.
Overall I’m satisfied Creation has acted fairly by agreeing to amend Mr H’s date of birth. And 
I can’t fairly order it to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1951751
