K820x#14
Complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by Citizens Advice, (CA) complains that Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd refused her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of 
faulty goods.
Background
In September 2017 Mrs S acquired a therapeutic pad and hand unit which was funded by a 
fixed sum loan agreement. Mrs S has a health condition which causes problems with her 
legs. In May 2018 Mrs S contacted the supplier to tell them that the hand unit was faulty. 
She was asked to return it for inspection and repair. She returned both items and the 
supplier fitted a new cable to the pad and checked the hand unit which wasn’t faulty. It 
returned the items to Mrs S, but it says she refused to accept them.
In November 2018 Mrs S complained to Creation saying the goods had not led to an 
improvement in her health condition and in fact it had become worse. She said she had been 
misled about its effectiveness. She also said that the timer had stopped working after four 
months and the supplier had been unable to fund a fault. She said that it had been returned 
to her with a vital component missing. Creation accepted there had been a fault which had 
been repaired, but didn’t accept there had been any misrepresentation.
CA brought Mrs S’s complaint to this service and said that the supplier hadn’t taken account 
of Mrs S’s mental health at the time of sale. This was referred to Creation as it hadn’t been 
part of the original complaint and it said it had nothing further to add. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didn’t recommend it be 
upheld. He said he had taken note of Mrs S’s mental condition, but he couldn’t verify what 
had been said by the salesperson. He couldn’t say that Mrs S had been misled about the 
effectiveness of the goods. Nor did he have sufficient evidence to say the goods were faulty 
and now unusable as Mrs S had said.
CA didn’t agree and provided medical evidence. It said that she had been incapable of 
making an informed decision due her mental state at the time of the sale.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Ref: DRN1076231
2
Creation has said it does not agree a claim should be made under section 75, as there was 
not enough evidence to show the supplier was in breach of contract or misrepresented the 
product.
I have every sympathy with Mrs S and her situation, but I do not consider I can uphold her 
complaint. I will explain why.
I asked Creation for details of the sales script used by the supplier or evidence from the 
salesperson. The latter wasn’t available as they had left the company. However, it said that it 
didn’t make promises about the healing powers of the devices. It said Mrs S would have 
been given a product demonstration and it explained that:
“We do not promise that the Cycloidal Vibration Therapy (which is a Class II a medical 
device) will act as a cure to any ailments and conditions, but may, with regular use provide 
therapeutic relief from a wide range of symptoms, and may help to reduce swelling or 
alleviate pain for example. The therapy may also help with relaxation and rest. Indeed many 
of our customers do find therapeutic relief from using our products. But we do not make any 
promises of healing.”
I noted the medical report CA had provided covered the period from late 2012 until early 
2016. It noted that as of December 2019 Mrs S did still suffer from some anxiety attacks but 
these are much better controlled. I asked if there was any evidence of her mental state in 
September 2017, but CA said it had no further information to provide.
I appreciate Mrs S had suffered from mental heath issues and she has my sympathy, but I 
am not persuaded her condition was such that it meant she was incapable of making an 
informed decision. I recognise that on occasions she suffered from anxiety attacks, but the 
medical report indicates that her condition had improved some 18 months before she made 
the purchase. I don’t believe I have seen sufficient evidence to allow me to uphold her 
complaint on these grounds.
It seems there was fault with one of the items, though I cannot say how or when that 
occurred. However, the supplier repaired the fault and checked over the other item to ensure 
it was working. As such I can see no grounds to allow me to uphold that aspect of her 
complaint. I have no evidence that the goods were faulty after they had been examined and 
repaired as necessary.
The third issue is the matter of alleged misrepresentation. Mrs S said she was led to believe 
that the “machine would have a positive impact on my health by helping to reduce the fluid 
build-up in my legs”. The supplier says that it makes no such promises, but rather it says that 
the machines may provide therapeutic relief. I cannot say what was said by the salesperson 
and how Mrs S interpreted what was said.
I would expect a sales presentation to put the product in the best light, but it is difficult for me 
to say that the salesperson overstepped the mark and made promises which were 
misleading. The written material provided by the supplier say that the machines are 
“designed to help relieve the symptoms of a range of conditions by helping to increase 
circulation and / or reduce pain”.
I can see that Mrs S had reasonable expectations that it would help her condition. But like 
many medical treatments good results cannot be guaranteed. Nor have I seen any evidence 
to show that her condition worsened as a result of using the devices or indeed that it didn’t 
Ref: DRN1076231
3
have positive results. Therefore, I don’t consider I have sufficient evidence to allow me to 
uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
21 June 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN1076231
