K821x#15
complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd cancelled a direct debit and has 
recorded adverse information on her credit file. She says this is causing her problems in her 
search for a new job. She wants the adverse information removed.
background
Creation says it’s not to blame. Its finance department says it cancelled the direct debit at 
the request of Miss S or her bank. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:

He’s spoken to Miss S’ bank and it says it’d be very unusual for it to ask for a direct 
debit to be cancelled. Although it might do so, for example, in the case of a 
bereavement. It’d tell Creation if money wasn’t available to pay it. But wouldn’t send 
an instruction to cancel it. It’s got nothing verifying Creation’s claim that it requested 
the direct debit was cancelled.

On the available evidence it’s more likely than not that the direct debit was cancelled 
at Creation’s end. 

So, Creation should remove the default markers created by the cancellations. And as 
the adverse information is causing Miss S distress when she’s seeking new 
employment Creation should also pay her £250 compensation.
Creation doesn’t agree. It says it’s provided a report showing a code indicating the direct 
debit was cancelled at the request of the payer. It doesn’t cancel direct debits unless 
instructed to do so either by the customer or their bank. It’s not made an error. It’s asked for 
an ombudsman review.     
Miss S points out that she’d two accounts with Creation and if she’d if she’d asked for one to 
be cancelled why didn’t she also cancel the other?
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, I’ve made 
my decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
I agree with the adjudicator’s conclusions for the same reasons.
Creation says a report code shows the direct debit was cancelled by Miss S or her bank. But 
it hasn’t got anything else proving Miss S or her bank actually gave it this instruction. 
Miss S’ bank also says it’s got nothing to show such an instruction was ever given by it to 
Creation. I also note Miss S had two direct debits with Creation and only one was cancelled.
Taking everything into account I don’t think Creation has shown on balance that the direct 
debit was cancelled correctly on Miss S’ instructions or at the request of her bank. 
Ref: DRN1130094
2
So, on balance I think its fair for the adverse information to be removed from Miss S’ credit 
file. The adverse information has likely had a detrimental effect on Miss S’ current search for 
a new job given the sector she works in. This has understandably caused her worry, trouble 
and upset. I agree with the adjudicator that this warrants an award of £250 compensation.  
Overall, I think the adjudicator’s recommendations are a fair and reasonable resolution of 
this complaint. And I see no compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to remove the adverse 
information recorded on Miss S’ credit file as a result of the cancellation of this direct debit 
and pay her £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2016.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1130094
