K820x#14
complaint
Mr L complains about a number of issues arising from the variation of his credit agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. He is represented in this complaint by Mrs H.
background
In November 2013 Mr L and Mrs H decided to buy some furniture from a third party. Mr L 
took out a loan agreement with Creation to pay for it. Later on they changed their minds 
about buying the furniture. They decided to buy some carpets instead. The carpets cost 
much less than the furniture. It’s not in dispute that the carpets were also bought on finance, 
but there is a dispute about the terms of repayment. Creation says that monthly repayments 
were due to start after the carpet was delivered. Mrs H says that they expected to pay a 
lump sum after four years. So part of this complaint is that Mr L began receiving demands for 
payment before the four years were up. So far he has not paid anything, and arrears have 
accrued.
This complaint is also about how much money is owed for the carpets. Mrs H says that the 
amount on the invoice for the carpet is higher than she was first told it would be. She also 
says that this dispute has led to negative information being recorded on Mr L’s credit file, 
and that this should be removed. She says that a new credit agreement should be provided, 
with the price that was originally agreed.
Creation says that in 2014 it had offered to give Mr L a new credit agreement, but he had 
refused to come in to the branch and sign it. In 2014 Creation had also reduced the price of 
the carpets by £400, and the new price is the amount Mrs H had originally been told they 
would cost. (The increase had been due to under-estimating the amount of carpet that would 
be needed, and this had been revised following a home visit by the supplier.) Creation says 
that the outstanding balance is now correct. As Mr L has been in arrears for over two years, 
it is right that this should be recorded on his credit file.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that Creation should give Mr L a new, 
accurate copy of the credit agreement. It should waive any charges it had applied for non-
payment, and remove any negative information from his credit file. Creation did not agree, 
and it asked for an ombudsman’s decision.
I wrote a provisional decision as follows.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The original loan agreement describes the goods it was meant to pay for in one simple word: 
“sofa.” There’s no mention of any carpet. But it is clearly not the case that the agreement 
was only intended to finance the purchase of a sofa. It’s not in dispute that Mr L and Mrs H 
were also going to buy four tables and six chairs. These appear on an invoice of the same 
date as the agreement. Nevertheless, there’s still no reference to any carpet on that invoice 
either. So the original agreement was just to pay for furniture.
When the order for furniture was cancelled and carpets were ordered instead, that was 
either a significant modification of the agreement or a new agreement. The total price of the 
Ref: DRN1703746
2
carpets, when they were first ordered, was around half the price of the furniture. A new loan 
agreement should have been executed and given to Mr L, but this doesn’t appear to have 
happened. That was clearly an error. But Creation offered to remedy this error in July 2014. 
It asked Mr L to come into the branch and sign a new loan agreement. But Mr L did not do 
so, either at the time or in the two and a half years since. That was his choice. It may be that 
he felt that he should not do so in case it compromised his position in the dispute about the 
price of the carpets. But I think to put this matter right it is enough for me to say that 
Creation’s offer still remains open. I don’t think it’s unreasonable of it to ask Mr L to sign the 
new agreement. Whether this happens or not does not affect his liability to repay the loan, 
since he has received the benefit of the loan. (In fairness to Mr L and Mrs H, they have not 
suggested otherwise.)
The parties do not dispute that the carpets were bought on finance. The carpets have been 
supplied. So although I still need to resolve what the terms of repayment were, and how 
much Mr L was liable to pay, nobody is suggesting that there is not a loan agreement for the 
carpets. So Creation is entitled to seek repayment of the loan in accordance with its terms.
The first invoice for the carpets is dated January 2014. It includes measurements of width 
and length for each room in which carpets were to be fitted. These are used to calculate the 
total area of carpet required, since the price is given as a certain amount per square metre. 
So in case it wasn’t already obvious that the total price depended on how much carpet was 
required, the invoice clearly spelled this out. I mention this because the entry for the stairs 
and landing does not give measurements of width and length, or the area, and question 
marks have been written there instead. Underneath it says “guess.” A price was written for 
this item but it has been deleted. But I think it is likely that this first invoice was only an 
estimate, with the final price to be given once the exact quantity needed was known.
The second invoice is undated, but must have been made later because it gives the full 
measurements. It was about £400 more expensive than the total price given on the first 
invoice. Creation says this is because more carpet had been needed than had been 
estimated, which came to light as a result of the surveyor’s home visit. In late 2014, Creation 
wrote to Mr L to tell him that it had reduced the cost of finance by £400. It’s not clear why it 
did so. But it wrote to him again in June 2015 to remind him that it had done this, and it gave 
a breakdown of the figures.
So I think that the dispute about the price of the carpets was resolved in 2014. I’ve seen no 
evidence to suggest that it was ever agreed or envisaged that the price would be lower than 
it is now. So I think that the amount outstanding under the loan is correct. It doesn’t need to 
be reduced further.
I’ve seen the loan agreement. It says that the first payment is due on 1 January 2014 
(although it goes on to say that the first payment won’t become due until after the goods 
have been delivered). It says there will be a total of 48 monthly repayments, ending in 
December 2017. Obviously these figures are for the price of the furniture, not the price of the 
carpets, so they will need to be revised to reflect the new price (and a payment plan can be 
agreed for the arrears). But there’s no evidence that the terms of repayment were varied 
from monthly payments to the single payment of a lump sum after four years, with no 
payments in the meantime. And I don’t believe it’s likely that such an arrangement was 
discussed, or that it would ever have been agreed to.
Ref: DRN1703746
3
It follows that I think there is not enough evidence for me to tell Creation to stop asking for 
payment, or to stop charging Mr L fees or interest for the arrears. And I think his credit file 
accurately reflects what has happened, so Creation does not have to change it.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional findings
Mrs H did not agree with my decision. She described a number of problems she had had 
with the carpet fitters. She said the second invoice does not add up, and she described it as 
“fraudulent.” She said she had been charged for underlay that was never fitted. She said that 
the measurements of floor space were wrong, and she reminded me of other measurements 
taken by an independent third party which she had provided. She said Creation hadn’t asked 
Mr L to sign a new agreement in 2014; rather, they had asked Creation for a new agreement 
and it had refused one.
Mrs H said that the £400 deduction did not reduce the price to the correct amount, and nor 
had it been intended to. It had been compensation for what the fitters had done wrong. So 
she argued that the correct balance should be based on the measurements taken by the 
independent third party, and that this should then be reduced by £400 so that she would not 
lose the compensation she had been given in 2014.
my findings
I have reconsidered the evidence, and the submissions made by both parties, before 
deciding what I think would be fair and reasonable.
the terms of repayment
I accept Mrs H’s argument that when her order for furniture was cancelled, the original 
finance agreement should have been cancelled too. A new agreement should have been set 
up for the carpets. Instead, the original finance agreement was kept in place, and the 
balance was adjusted by deducting the difference between the price of the furniture and the 
price of the carpets. Mr L’s credit file was amended to show the new balance.
That error had two consequences. Firstly, the furniture was delivered anyway, and had to be 
sent back. Secondly, the balance adjustment did not affect the length of the agreement or 
the amount of the monthly instalments. Instead, the due date of the first repayment was 
delayed from 2014 until January 2016. I think this is likely to be the source of Mrs H’s 
understanding that no payments were supposed to be due until the end of the four-year 
agreement. She believes the payments were collected early as a result of being triggered by 
the balance adjustments.
However, I don’t accept that that is the case. The terms of the agreement are monthly 
repayments by direct debit, and they have not been changed. The fact that the agreement 
should have been cancelled and replaced by a new one makes no difference – if that had 
happened, the new agreement would still have required monthly direct debits. And Mr L was 
still liable to make the payments.
I therefore think that the credit file is an accurate record of what happened, and so I won’t 
require Creation to change it.
Ref: DRN1703746
4
the outstanding balance
The original invoice dated January 2014 added up to £2,936.50. This is the price which was 
originally agreed for the carpets.
The later, undated, invoice gives a total of £3,144.60. This figure became the new balance 
on the finance agreement, in place of the price of the furniture. But this is invoice is incorrect. 
It actually adds up to £3,118.49. I don’t need to comment on Mrs H’s allegation that the 
second invoice is fraudulent, but I do agree that it is not very clear. It is certainly not as clear 
as it should be. Creation has explained (based on what the supplier of the carpets told it) 
that the reason for the increased price is because when the floor area was measured, it 
turned out to be larger than it had been estimated to be when the first invoice was prepared. 
But that isn’t apparent when the invoices are compared.
Creation said that the first invoice was for 111 m2 of carpet and the second invoice was for 
124 m2, a difference of 13 square metres. But the floor measurements listed in the first 
invoice add up to 114.9 m2, and the second invoice lists measurements which add up to 
115.3 m2.
The first invoice includes 103 m2 of underlay, while the second included 106 m2 of underlay.
Those differences are far too small to account for the difference in price, which is £181.99. 
(In my provisional decision I said the difference was about £400, but I have rechecked the 
figures and £182 is the correct figure. I have based that on the corrected total for the second 
invoice; the difference using the uncorrected figure would have been £208.10.)
In an email in October 2014, the supplier of the carpet offered to reduce the balance by 
£400. It isn’t clear how that figure was chosen, unless some of it was intended to 
compensate Mr L and Mrs H for their trouble. I will quote the relevant paragraph of the email 
in full, for a reason I shall shortly explain. It appeared under the heading “Invoice Variation”:
I understand there is a difference in the [first] invoice amount and the finalised price. 
I can confirm that whilst it is accepted that there would be a difference in price, given 
the fact that there was a requirement for additional carpet to be supplied, I understand 
that the variation is not clear. Therefore in full and final settlement of this matter, I can 
confirm that upon satisfactory completion of all reported issues, I will process a cost 
reduction, against the finance agreement, to reflect this. In doing so it is understood 
that this is in full and final settlement of this matter. This amount would be 400.00.
That reduction brought the balance to nearly £200 below the price which had originally been 
agreed on under the first invoice. In my provisional decision, I said that this resolved the 
price dispute, and so I would not require Creation to reduce the price further.
Mrs H did not agree. She said that the balance should be recalculated based on the new 
floor area measurements that had been taken by the independent third party, which would 
be £2,855.65. And she argued that this new price should then have £400 deducted from it.
I don’t agree that the price of the carpet should be recalculated based on the new 
measurements that Mrs H has obtained. That price is lower than the price Mr L agreed to on 
the first invoice, and there’s no reason to reduce it below what was originally agreed.
The £400 deduction Mrs H still wants is based on her argument that the £400 reduction 
offered in the email I quoted above was not intended to resolve the price dispute, but as 
Ref: DRN1703746
5
compensation for various things the carpet fitters did wrong. Although the carpet supplier 
wasn’t responsible for what the fitters did (and neither is Creation), it had still offered her 
£400 compensation for the fitters’ errors as a gesture of good will. That offer appears in 
another paragraph of the same email, which I will again quote in full. It appeared under the 
heading “Property Damage”:
I will cover the cost of any remedial work to your skirting board. I understand that the 
developers … are able to produce a quotation and this will be circa 400. As this is as a 
result of the fitting of the carpet, we would not be liable. However … solely as a gesture 
of goodwill, given the contractual relationship between the fitter and you, we will cover 
this cost, upon receipt of a satisfactory quotation. This will have to be raised in the form 
of a cheque made payable to yourselves and for you to settle the invoice directly with 
[the fitters] as per their terms of business. They can email myself with the details of the 
work and confirm the price. Upon receipt I can issue a cheque in 5–7 days.
Mrs H argues that the two paragraphs I have quoted amount to one single offer of £400, and 
that this was meant as compensation for what the fitters did. So if the £400 is used to 
resolve the price dispute, then she won’t have had the benefit of being compensated for the 
damage.
I do not agree. I think it is as plain as day that this email contained two offers: £400 for the 
damage caused by the fitters, and another £400 to settle the dispute about the price 
increase in the second invoice. And in fact, instead of paying £400 for the damage the fitters 
caused, the carpet supplier eventually sent Mrs H and Mr L a cheque for £810 as 
compensation for the damage. Altogether, Mr L and Mrs H have had about £1,000 
compensation, not including the difference between the invoices. So I don’t agree that 
another £400 should still have to be deducted as well.
underlay
As I’ve said already, Creation isn’t responsible for what the fitters did, or didn’t do. So if they 
didn’t fit all of the underlay they were supposed to, I can’t hold Creation responsible for that. 
I haven’t seen evidence to show that less than 106 m2 of underlay was supplied.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L (or Mrs H on 
his behalf) to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2017.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1703746
