K820x#14
complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t 
upheld his section 75 claim.
background
Mr S bought solar panels with the help of finance from Creation. He subsequently made a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act saying that the benefits of the solar 
panels had been misrepresented to him.
Creation investigated Mr S’s section 75 claim but didn’t uphold it. Mr S complained about this 
and the way the solar panels had been sold to him.
Creation investigated Mr S’s complaint. It said that the benefits of the solar panels hadn’t 
been misrepresented so it was right not to uphold his section 75 claim. Mr S was unhappy 
about this and so complained to us.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that this complaint be upheld as they didn’t think the 
benefits of the solar panels had been misrepresented. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. In particular, he said that the solar panels had been sold to him as a 
way to save money. He says he hasn’t saved money and wouldn’t have bought them if he 
knew that he wouldn’t do so.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S bought his solar panels following a meeting with a sales agent from a third party 
company. He says that the agent told him that the solar panels:

would cost just over £9,000;

would be “self-funding”; and

would generate an income and make savings for him.
He says he wasn’t told that the solar panels would cost just under £15,000 once the interest 
he’d be charged on his loan was taken into account. In other words, he says that the cost of 
the solar panels was misrepresented. He also says that the solar panels haven’t been “self-
funding” and haven’t generated the income and savings he was told they would. He also 
says that the solar panels have been under-performing. Finally he says that he hasn’t saved 
money and he only bought them because he was told he’d save money.
was the cost of the solar panels misrepresented?
I agree with Mr S that the invoice he was sent for his solar panels says they would cost just 
under £10,000. However, Mr S was taking out a loan to pay for his solar panels. He was sent 
a copy of a finance agreement to sign because of this. That agreement makes it clear that 
once interest is taken into account he would have to pay back just under £15,000. So I don’t 
agree that the total cost of the solar panels was misrepresented. Mr S should have known 
that he’d end up paying just under £15,000 for his solar panels.
Ref: DRN1665587
2
have Mr S’s solar panels under-performed?
Having looked at the evidence, Mr S’s solar panels appear to be over-performing rather than 
under-performing at the moment.
was Mr S told he’d save money?
I can see that Mr S was told that he’d save money on his electricity bill if he had solar 
panels. I can also see that he has done so. But Mr S says he hasn’t saved money overall 
when the loan repayments he’s making are taken into account. I accept that he hasn’t, and 
that he won’t recover his costs for many years. That is, however, mostly due to the fact that 
he took out a loan to finance the solar panels. Had he not done so, he would have made 
savings sooner – although the solar panels would still be a long term investment. In this 
particular case, I’ve already said I think Mr S should have known that he’d end up paying just 
under £15,000 for his solar panels and that he’d be paying £120 a month for them. I don’t 
think I can say, given this, that Mr S shouldn’t have known that he wouldn’t be saving money 
overall once his loan repayments were taken into account.
I don’t agree that the benefits of Mr S’s solar panels were misrepresented to him given 
everything I’ve just said. So I don’t think it would be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2016.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1665587
