K821x#10
summary of complaint
This complaint concerns a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out by Mr G alongside an unsecured loan in April 2009. Mr G says Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold the policy. Mr G cancelled the policy in July 2010. 
As Mr G is currently in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA), the IVA administrator has 
joined this complaint as an eligible complainant. 
my findings
I have included only a brief summary of the complaint above, but I have considered all the 
evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any relevant 
regulatory rules as well as the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold. 
The key questions I need to consider, therefore, are:
–
if Creation gave Mr G any advice or recommendation, did it take adequate steps to
ensure the product it recommended was suitable for his needs; and
–
did Creation give Mr G information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could
make an informed choice about taking out the PPI policy.
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I need to decide whether Mr G 
would have done something different if it had not done something wrong. 
First, I have considered whether the PPI policy was optional.
Was the PPI policy optional?
Mr G says he was worried he would not get the loan if he did not take out the PPI policy. 
Creation says the policy was optional. I have considered this point very carefully.
DRN1942159
2
I understand Mr G took out the loan (and PPI policy) during a telephone call with Creation. 
Unfortunately, Creation is unable to provide a recording of the telephone call. This means 
I cannot know for certain what Creation told Mr G about the PPI policy. Creation has, 
however, provided a copy of the script it says its representatives would have been using at 
the time Mr G took out the PPI policy and a copy of the documentation it says it would have 
given Mr G. I have considered these, alongside what Mr G says, to try and establish what 
Creation might have told him about the PPI policy. 
Having done so, I have some concerns as to whether Mr G would have understood the 
policy was optional, for the following reasons:
–
Having considered Creation’s script, I note the representative is prompted to say “I am
going to give you some information about our optional Payment Protection Insurance
cover…” and “If you decide to add this cover to your loan…”, Of course, I cannot be
certain whether or not Creation’s representative said this to Mr G. But, given the
representative is prompted twice within the script, it seems more likely than not they
would have said something to Mr G about the policy being optional.
–
I also note the policy summary states “This insurance is optional…” However,
I understand this was sent out after the telephone call. So it is difficult to know whether
Mr G would have been aware of the policy’s optional nature from the policy summary
before he agreed to take the policy out.
–
Finally, I have some concerns about how the policy was presented to Mr G within the
loan agreement he signed on 10 April 2009. I accept the costs of the PPI policy were set
out separately from the costs of the loan and Mr G had to sign separately to agree to
take out the policy, all of which suggests the policy was separate from the loan and not
an intrinsic part of it.
But I also note the loan agreement appears to have been amended by hand before Mr G
signed it. There are five arrows pointing to places Mr G needed to sign and date,
including the place he needed to sign to agree to take out the PPI policy. I also note that,
next to the box Mr G needed to tick if he wanted to take out the PPI policy, someone has
written “<- TICK”. In light of this, it seems Mr G may have been guided towards selecting
the PPI policy. I have to question whether he truly understood the policy was optional
and that he had a choice about taking it out.
In conclusion, it is difficult for me to say for certain whether Creation presented the policy to 
Mr G as optional. The loan agreement suggests Mr G may have been guided into taking out 
the policy by the amendments indicating where he should tick and sign. On the other hand, it 
appears the script would have prompted Creation’s representative to tell Mr G the policy was 
optional. I appreciate scripts are not always followed faithfully but, here, I am not persuaded 
I can safely conclude it is more likely than not Creation did not tell Mr G during the telephone 
call the policy was optional. So, having considered the available evidence, I am not 
persuaded I can safely conclude it is more likely than not Creation presented the policy to 
Mr G as compulsory; it seems equally likely it presented it to him as optional. 
Next, I have considered whether Creation advised Mr G to take out the policy and, if it did, 
whether it was suitable for him given his circumstances and needs.
3
Did Creation give advice and, if it did, was the policy suitable?
Mr G says he cannot remember whether he received advice. Creation says it did not give 
Mr G advice. Having considered the available evidence, it seems more likely than not 
Creation did not give advice. This means it was not required to ensure it recommended a 
suitable policy. But it was required to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so Mr G could make an informed choice about taking out the policy. Having 
considered the information Creation says it gave Mr G about the policy, I have some 
concerns it was not clear, fair and not misleading. And I am not persuaded Mr G would 
necessarily have gone ahead with the policy if he had received clearer information about its 
costs, benefits, limitations and exclusions. I say this for the following reasons:
–
First, I have considered the disclosure of the policy terms and conditions. Having
considered Creation’s script, I accept the representative tells the customer there are
some policy exclusions. But the representative only provides a brief overview of them
and the customer is not told where more information can be found. Although the
representative later says documentation will be sent out to the customer, there is no
mention of what it contains or whether the customer will be given more information about
the policy.
It appears the representative is not prompted to say anything about the importance of
reading the policy exclusions and limitations. And, having considered the policy summary
and policy document, it seems they were set out in such a way that I consider it could be
difficult to locate a particular term or condition and that they could have been easily
overlooked by the reader if their attention was not drawn to them by other means. And, in
this case, I am not persuaded it was.
–
Mr G was taking out the loan to consolidate existing debt over a term of six years. Mr G
says he had previously consolidated debt, primarily to make it more affordable. I see no
reason to doubt this. In these circumstances, it seems to me more likely than not Mr G
may have thought he might refinance this loan before the end of the term of the
PPI policy, given his situation at that time and the reason for taking out the loan.
If Mr G cancelled the PPI policy early (which he would do if he refinanced the loan) he
would receive a much less than pro rata refund of the single premium amount. So, the
policy terms relating to early cancellation of the policy would have been of particular
significance to Mr G. Information about early cancellation of the policy is included in the
policy summary under ‘What happens if I take out cover then change my mind or repay
my loan early’, but it only tells the reader that they will receive a partial refund of the
premium and gives examples of what percentage they may receive if they cancel 24 and
36 months into a 3 and 5 year loan. There is no further information about how the refund
amount is calculated.
The reader is directed to the policy document for more information, but this also only
gives the same examples of what a policyholder could receive on cancellation, although
it does also state the refund is not calculated on a proportionate basis.
I have also considered what the representative was prompted to tell the customer during
the telephone call from the script. Having considered this, the only reference to a refund
is made in relation to cancelling an existing PPI policy if consolidating an existing
Creation loan.
4
As Mr G was not consolidating an existing Creation loan, it seems likely Creation’s 
representative may not have told him anything about how any refund would be 
calculated if he cancelled the new PPI policy early. 
Given all of the above, I am not satisfied the information about how a premium refund 
would be calculated on early cancellation was sufficiently clear for Mr G to have been 
able to work out what refund he might receive. And I am not satisfied the information he 
received highlighted the non-pro rata rebate so that he could decide for himself whether 
the policy was appropriate for him. Because Mr G was consolidating existing debt and 
because of the likelihood of his refinancing in the future, I am not persuaded he would 
still have gone ahead with the policy if this information had been clearer. 
–
Finally, I note the adjudicator concluded Mr G would not have taken out the policy if the
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions had been explained because he
had a medical condition. I appreciate the policy may not have covered Mr G for his
medical condition or other conditions relating to it. But Mr G says his symptoms were
stable and controlled by medication and other means. He also says he had taken no time
off work for his condition when he took out the policy. And it is possible Mr G may have
thought he would not need to take time off work for his condition in the future.
Given what Mr G has said, if Creation had provided him with clearer information about
the policy terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions, I am not persuaded it is more
likely than not he would have declined to take out the policy because of his medical
condition.
In conclusion, I am not persuaded that Creation provided information to Mr G that was clear, 
fair and not misleading, and it seems to me he has lost out as a result. In light of this, 
I uphold this complaint and I make an award against Creation.
fair compensation
It seems to me most likely that if Mr G had been properly informed, he would still have taken 
out the loan but would not have taken out the PPI policy. So Mr G should be returned, as 
closely as possible, to the position he would now be in if that had happened. 
It is my understanding Mr G cancelled the PPI policy in July 2010 but that the loan is still 
running and forms part of Mr G’s IVA. Given this, I direct Creation to:
(A) compare the payments (capital and interest) Mr G actually made to the loan with the
payments he would have made to the loan had PPI not been included, and refund the
overpayments made, calculated up to the date of settlement. Interest should be added to
these overpayments at the rate of 8% per year simple† from the date of each payment up
to the date the compensation is paid;
(B) compare the outstanding balance of the loan at the date the compensation is paid with
what the balance of the loan would have been at the same date if PPI had not been
included, taking into account the PPI policy premium rebate applied to the loan in July
2010 when Mr G cancelled the PPI policy, and refund the difference.
5
(C) set out in writing for Mr G the details of the calculations under (A) and (B).
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate tax from the 
compensation and Mr G’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax position 
can be found on our website. Creation and Mr G should contact HM Revenue and Customs 
if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Mr G entered an IVA on 1 March 2011 and an IVA administrator was appointed. Creation 
should liaise with the IVA administrator to determine how redress should be paid. Please 
note it is Creation’s responsibility to ensure redress is paid to the correct parties. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Mr G. I require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay fair compensation in accordance with the calculation 
of redress I set out above. I make no further award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Chloe Wooles
Ombudsman
