K821x#14
complaint
Mr M is complaining that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) in 2005
background
Mr M took out the single premium PPI policy at the same time as he took out a loan to buy 
some furniture in a store. The loan was just under £1,200 and the premium for the insurance 
was nearly £400. This was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature which meant Mr M wouldn’t pay interest 
if he paid off the credit within a year. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including nearly £350 
interest on the insurance premium) over the term of the loan.
Our adjudicator decided to uphold the complaint. He didn’t think that Creation had explained 
the costs of the policy to Mr M properly, and that if it had done so, Mr M wouldn’t have 
bought it.
Creation didn’t agree, so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr M’s case.
Mr M says that at the time he bought the furniture he wasn’t given any information about the 
PPI, he didn’t ask for it, and he didn’t know it was added. Creation says that the Mr M signed 
to opt in to the policy, and to confirm that he understood its benefits.
Creation and Mr M agree that the business didn’t recommend the insurance to Mr M. But 
Creation still had to make sure it pointed out all the key features of the policy in a way which 
was clear, fair and not misleading.
In this case I don’t think that Creation did properly explain the cost of the policy to Mr M. This 
is because:

The credit agreement showed the cost of the PPI premium. But it then added this cost to 
the loan, before stating the interest on the total amount. It didn’t separate out the interest 
on the premium, or the total cost of the insurance. I don’t think it would’ve been 
reasonably possible for Mr M to work out the full amount he was paying for the PPI from 
the figures on this agreement. Mr M was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the total cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement, and it wasn’t.

The statement of price did set out the interest and the total cost for PPI. But it was on 
page two of the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr M would expect it to 
be. And I can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop 
and his attention was on buying furniture – not on buying insurance.
Ref: DRN1371331
2

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr M better understand what the policy was costing him.

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr M aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay the 
loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest 
at 29.8%. This meant Mr M would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost in the first year. And the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover.

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr M was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr M would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items.
Creation says that as Mr M signed to say that he understood the terms and conditions of the 
policy, this meant he was in a position to make an informed decision. But I don’t think this is 
enough to show that Creation highlighted the important features of the policy clearly and 
fairly – as it was required to.
I don’t think Mr M would’ve bought the policy if he’d been aware of how much it was going to 
cost him.
I think Mr M has lost out because of what Creation did wrong, so the business needs to put 
things right.
putting things right
In this case I understand that the insurance has ended and the loan has been paid off.
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr M needs to get back the extra he’s paid.
So, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Work out and pay Mr M the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is 
required to pay the compensation set out above.
Ref: DRN1371331
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2015.
Barbara Wight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1371331
