K821x#15
complaint
Mr and Mrs C say there have been faults with a leather sofa and recliner they financed 
through Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
background
In March 2016 Mr and Mrs C signed a point of sale loan with Creation to finance their 
purchase of a reclining chair and sofa as well as some other items.
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs C complained to the retailer that the leather on the sofa and 
chair was peeling away. There was no reply by the retailer and Mr and Mrs C complained to 
Creation in February 2018. Creation responded that Mr and Mrs C should approach the 
retailer to arrange repair. 
So Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this service and our investigator took a look at 
the evidence. He thought there was clear evidence that the leather was peeling away and 
that the sofa and chair was not of satisfactory quality given the time that Mr and Mrs C had 
owned the items and the price they paid. He also thought that Creation hadn’t done enough 
to assist Mr and Mrs C when they raised the complaint by directing them back to the retailer.
He thought Creation should do something to put this right. Although Mr and Mrs C wanted to 
return the items he thought it would be fair to give Creation an opportunity to fix it. He said 
that Creation should arrange for the sofa and chair to be recovered and it should also pay Mr 
and Mrs C £150 to reflect the inconvenience caused by its handling of the complaint.
Following receipt of the investigator’s view in November 2018 Creation asked the retailer to 
make arrangements to repair the items. The retailer is only prepared to repair the damaged 
areas of the sofa and chair and not recover them completely. Because of the issues with the 
poor quality of leather the investigator didn’t think that was acceptable. He thought that in 
these circumstances the items would now need to be returned. As the repairs cannot be 
agreed the matter has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree with the 
investigator’s view and for broadly similar reasons.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr and Mrs C acquired their furniture under a fixed sum loan agreement. The relevant law 
says that the furniture should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t 
then Creation is responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. On this basis if I thought the furniture was faulty when supplied, I’d think it fair 
and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right. It appears to be accepted by Creation that 
the leather should not have worn in the way that it has and therefore the sofa and chair are 
not of satisfactory quality. 
Ref: DRN1237617
2
We’d usually allow the business one chance to repair the goods but if that repair failed we 
would usually expect the consumer to be allowed to reject them. In these circumstances 
Creation is not in a position to arrange an adequate repair. I agree with the investigator that 
repairing only the damaged sections isn’t a proper repair given the issues are with the 
leather in different parts of the sofa and chair. That would suggest it is likely that the whole of 
the covering is not of satisfactory quality. The whole of the sofa and chair should therefore 
be recovered.
So under these circumstances as Creation is unable to arrange to repair the items, they 
should now allow Mr and Mrs C to reject the sofa and chair. I have considered that Mr and 
Mrs C had use of the furniture for over a year before there were any problems and so I don’t 
think it would be fair for them to have the return of all of the money they paid. 
I think that Creation should cancel the agreement and refund all instalments that have been 
made towards the credit agreement since February 2018 which was the date that Mr and 
Mrs C complained to Creation.
I agree with the investigator that Creation should have done more to assist Mr and Mrs C to 
resolve this issue and not simply direct them back to the retailer when the business was 
aware that Mr and Mrs C had not obtained a satisfactory reply. In these circumstances I 
think £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the upset caused.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

arrange the collection of the furniture at no cost to Mr and Mrs C

cancel the loan agreement with nothing further to pay

return all of the instalments Mr and Mrs C have made towards their loan agreement 
since 4 February 2018 and add 8% simple interest from the point of payment to the 
point of settlement

remove any adverse credit markers from Mr and Mrs C’s credit file that have been 
made in relation to this issue

pay Mr and Mrs C £150 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1237617
