K821x#15
complaint
Mr Q complains about a purchase he made using a finance agreement from 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
background
In January 2018, Mr Q bought a corner sofa and took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement from 
Creation to pay for it. The loan agreement totalled £820 to be repaid by 34 monthly 
payments of £24.11. He says he had concerns whether the corner sofa would fit because of 
the angle of the corner of the room, so he says the store asked him to provide dimensions 
and photos of the room to make sure it would fit. Mr Q says the sales person assured him 
the sofa would fit and was adjustable. When it was delivered in May 2018, it didn’t fit and 
wasn’t adjustable. He tried to return it to the store and was told he couldn’t do so unless he 
accepted a 20% reduction. He tells us he’s not used the sofa and has kept it in storage.
Mr Q complained first to the store but didn’t receive a response. After contacting us, he 
complained to Creation who issued a final response. They said it was Mr Q’s responsibility to 
ensure the item would fit in the room. They said he had been offered a ‘reselection with a 
20% charge to change the goods’ and they felt that was reasonable.
Mr Q didn’t agree and referred to his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. 
She said that under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75), Mr Q could 
claim against Creation about any misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods. She was 
satisfied that Mr Q had provided dimensions and photographs of the room as requested by 
the sales representative and had been assured the sofa was adjustable and would fit. She 
felt Mr Q relied on that information when entering into the contract. As the sofa didn’t fit and 
wasn’t adjustable, she felt it had been misrepresented to Mr Q.
Our investigator upheld Mr Q’s complaint and said that Creation should:

Collect the sofa at no cost to Mr Q.

Cancel the Fixed Sum Loan agreement.

Refund all payments he’d made plus 8% interest. 
Mr Q accepted her recommendation, but Creation didn’t. They asked for the ‘specifications’ 
(by which our investigator thought they meant the dimensions of the room) Mr Q had given 
the retailer and asked how they were given – verbally or via email. Our investigator 
confirmed they were given verbally but that she believed photographs were taken at the time 
and shown to the sales representative. 
Creation then explained that the retailer doesn’t make ‘bespoke’ furniture so their items 
would be made to a set size and wouldn’t be adjustable. They said the ‘acceptance of the 
goods is based on the customer taking measurements of their own property, comparing it to 
the size of the goods…’. They said they couldn’t see that the retailer had made any errors as 
they rely on the customers to provide the correct details. 
Our investigator said that she was persuaded by Mr Q’s statements that he’d provided 
photographs of the room as he was concerned about how the sofa would fit. She thought 
he’d been assured it would. She didn’t think it was unreasonable for him to have relied on 
what the sales representative had told him. Her recommendation didn’t change. 
Ref: DRN1681863
2
Creation again didn’t agree and said (in summary):

The retailer has a process they follow if a customer tells them there may be issues 
with the delivery or installation and they make notes of the concerns. They say the 
retailer has no such notes, so this suggests no issues were raised. 

No goods of this nature supplied by the retailer are adjustable.

As the measurements were given verbally, Creation says there’s nothing to 
demonstrate they were accurate. They say it’s equally reasonable to conclude that 
the retailer provided goods that would fit based on the measurements given by Mr Q. 
As there was no agreement, Mr Q’s complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75, a consumer has the right in certain circumstances to make a claim against 
the provider of the credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods. I’m satisfied the required circumstances for Mr G to make a claim are 
present here. 
My role isn’t to decide whether Mr Q has a valid claim under section 75, as that is for a court 
to decide. Instead, I’m required to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. In doing so, I’ve taken account of what the law says, including section 75. 
We’ve asked each party to this case to supply further evidence to help resolve this dispute, 
but some of what we’d normally expect to see in complaints of this nature hasn’t been 
provided. I’ve therefore reached my conclusions on the balance of probabilities – that is what 
I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.  
Mr Q says he was assured the sofa would fit and was adjustable. For a claim under a 
misrepresentation to succeed, the consumer must have been given false information and 
that information must have induced them into accepting a contract they wouldn’t have 
accepted if they’d been given the correct information. 
Mr Q has provided me with photos he says were shown to the sales representative. From 
the date stamps of the photos, I’m satisfied they were taken at the time, so I think on 
balance, they’re likely to be those shown at the time of the sale. 
The photos show a tight corner with an angle of much less than 90 degrees; indeed, Mr Q 
has set up a right angle in some of the photos to help to show how tight the corner is. Given 
that the corner sofa delivered has a 90-degree angle, it’s clear that the sofa wouldn’t fit 
neatly into the corner as one would normally expect. 
I understand the points raised by Creation about the retailer’s processes and its products 
generally not being adjustable. I note too that it says the measurements were given verbally, 
so may have been inaccurate. But the absence of notes doesn’t automatically mean that a 
discussion didn’t take place; it simply shows that no notes were made. And I accept that the 
measurements (length and width of the room) could potentially have been given 
inaccurately. But it’s not the size of the sofa that’s the issue in this case; it’s the shape of it 
that makes it unsuitable for the room. In that respect, I find that the photos of the corner of 
Ref: DRN1681863
3
the room in which the sofa was expected to fit, are persuasive and clear that the angle 
wouldn’t be suitable for a sofa with a 90-degree corner.
I think it’s unlikely that Mr Q would have bought the sofa with a 90-degree angle for this room 
unless he was told it could be adjusted. Therefore, I feel on balance it’s more likely than not 
that there was a misrepresentation of the products bought by Mr Q, and that he was induced 
into entering the contract based on that misrepresentation. He’s not had use of the sofa as it 
doesn’t fit in his room and he’s kept it in storage since delivery. For this reason, I think it’s 
fair and reasonable for Creation to cancel the finance agreement, collect the sofa and refund 
any payments Mr Q has made. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Q’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and they should:
       Collect the sofa at no cost to Mr Q.
       Cancel the Fixed Sum Loan agreement.
       Refund all payments he’s made – including his deposit - plus 8% interest from the 
date of the payment to the date it’s refunded. If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
consider they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest, they should tell Mr Q how much they’ve taken off. They should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1681863
