Complaint
Ms H complains about the quality of a fridge she bought using finance provided by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd. She says the fridge was faulty and had been mis-sold to her.
Ms H has also complained that the finance agreement was mis-sold, Creation didn’t allow 
her to cancel the agreement when she requested to do so and that its handling and 
administration of her account was poor.
Background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated
13 August 2020. My provisional decision is attached below and forms part of my final 
decision. Neither side has responded to my provisional decision, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.
Ms H should have been allowed to cancel the credit agreement when she requested to do 
but this would have meant she would have had to repay Creation the full amount it had paid 
D for both appliance. So, Creation’s advice to try and sort things out with D first was 
reasonable.
If the fridge was faulty Ms H may have been due a refund from D and under section 75 CCA 
(section 75) could have raised a like claim against Creation. But I haven’t been provided 
enough evidence to show that the fridge was actually faulty. D agreed to provide Ms H a full 
refund for both appliances, Creation would only have been obligated to do this if Ms H had 
shown both appliances were faulty and that D should have accepted her request to return 
them. But there’s nothing to suggest there were any issues with the freezer.
Ms H may have also been able to raise a claim under section 75 for the damage to her 
worktop but she accepted an offer to put things right from D and I haven’t seen any evidence 
which shows it actually cost Ms H more to fix the problem than D paid her. So, I don’t think 
Creation needs to do anything else in regards Ms H’s section 75 claim.
Creation has paid Ms H £50 compensation for any mistakes it made in its handling of things. 
I think this is fair compensation for any distress and inconvenience Ms H was caused by 
Creat eeds to do anything else to put things
right.
Ref: DRN1463049
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1463049
3
Provisional decision
background
In August 2018 Ms H purchased a fridge and freezer from a retailer I’ll refer to as D. Ms H financed 
the purchase through a running account credit agreement with Creation. The goods were delivered 
on 1 September 2018.
Shortly after the goods were delivered Ms H got in touch with D to raise some concerns.
She continued to discuss these issues with D and later involved Creation. During her dealings 
with both businesses Ms H raised concerns that:

She wanted to buy a particular brand of fridge, but D’s advisor had initially told her that 
brand wasn’t available on buy now pay later and she should return in a couple of days. 
When she did, the fridge was out of stock and she was sold a different fridge which wasn’t 
what she wanted.

She didn’t know that the finance agreement was running account credit and thought 
the purchase was financed on buy now pay later which she’d seen advertised on 
line.

She didn’t receive a copy of the credit agreement when she ordered the goods and had 
to make several requests to D and Creation before she was sent a full, accurate copy 
of the agreement.

D’s delivery drivers damaged the worktop in her kitchen – she provided a quote for repairs of
£276 but D had only agreed to pay her £150.

The fridge made a loud popping noise when the thermostat switched on/off and didn’t 
keep a constant temperature - meaning she had to keep altering the dial to manually 
adjust the temperature.

Food had spoiled because of faults with the fridge

Under Section 66A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) she had 14 days after the day 
of receipt of the credit agreement to cancel it. But when she tried to do so Creation said it 
was too late for her to cancel the agreement.

Creation should have cancelled the agreement as soon as D collected her goods.

Creation didn’t provide everything she thought it should have after making a subject 
access request.
D offered Ms H £75 compensation for its handling of things, paid £150 towards the cost 
of repairing/replacing the worktop and accepted the return of the fridge and the freezer.
Creation confirmed the balance of the account had been paid in full, it had been closed in 
late October 2018 and it paid Ms H £50 in compensation for its handling of things.
Ms H wasn’t satisfied with Creation or D’s responses so referred her complaints to this service. 
The investigator who looked into Ms H’s complaint about Creation didn’t uphold it. The investigator 
explained that Ms H had been allowed to return the goods, received a full refund and received fair 
compensation for Creation’s handling of the matter so it didn’t need to do anything else to resolve 
Ms H’s complaint.
Creation accepted her assessment but Ms H didn’t. She said she’d never agreed for the purchase 
to be financed by Creation and she only found out it was after realising a direct debit had been set 
up. She reiterated that she hadn’t received a copy of the credit agreement until after she’d told D 
and Creation that she wanted to return the goods and end the agreement. She also pointed out 
that documents she received after making a subject access request show D didn’t accept return 
of the goods because they were faulty and D’s internal notes say it only allowed her to return the 
goods because of her ‘vulnerabilities’.
Ref: DRN1463049
4
Ms H also explained that she thought the investigator should have been able to look into the 
customer service provided by D. Ms H pointed out that she never accepted or received the £75 
compensation offered by D and said she’d experienced considerable distress and inconvenience 
dealing with D and Creation and the compensation offered by both business wasn’t sufficient to 
recognise this.
Because Ms H didn’t accept the investigator’s assessment the case has been passed to me 
to decide.
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I’m required to decide what, if anything, Creation should do 
to resolve this complaint. In doing that, I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having 
regard to (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law here includes the CCA.
was the agreement mis-sold?
Section 56 CCA makes the provider of finance equally liable for any misrepresentation made by 
the credit broker in relation to the agreement. A credit broker being the party which introduces 
the consumer to the supplier of finance. Here D is both the supplier of the goods and the credit 
broker. So, this means I could look at Ms H’s complaint that the agreement was mis-sold against 
D or Creation. But as Ms H has raised a separate complaint about D with this service, I will not 
deal with her concerns about the way the agreement was sold in this decision.
should Ms H have been allowed to cancel the 
agreement? Ms H has referenced Section 66 A CCA, 
which says:
“(1) The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in accordance with 
this section.
(2) To withdraw from an agreement under this section the debtor must give oral or written notice 
of the withdrawal to the creditor before the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day 
after the relevant day.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) the relevant day is whichever is the latest of the following—
(a) the day on which the agreement is made;
(b) where the creditor is required to inform the debtor of the credit limit under the agreement, the 
day on which the creditor first does so;
(c) in the case of an agreement to which section 61A (duty to supply copy of executed consumer 
credit agreement) applies, the day on which the debtor receives a copy of the agreement under 
that section or on which the debtor is informed as specified in subsection (3) of that section;
But goes on to say:
(9) Where the debtor withdraws from an agreement under this section—
Ref: DRN1463049
5
(a) the debtor must repay to the creditor any credit provided and the interest accrued on it (at the 
rate provided for under the agreement),”
Ms H says she didn’t receive any paperwork for the agreement at the point of sale and that 
doesn’t seem to be in dispute. I can see a reference in Creation’s notes to a welcome pack being 
sent to Ms H - but I haven’t seen any evidence that this actually was sent. So, it appears Ms H 
hadn’t received a copy of the agreement until 11 October 2018. I can see she’d told D she 
wanted to return the items and cancel the agreement on 5 October 2018. And I can see Ms H 
asked Creation to cancel the agreement on 11 October 2018, so she was within 14 days of 
receiving the agreement and was entitled to cancel it.
So, I don’t think Creation was right in advising Ms H that she couldn’t cancel the agreement. But, 
Creation had already paid D for the goods so to cancel the agreement Ms H would also have been 
required to pay this back. Creation advised Ms H that she should continue discussing the issue 
with D to see if it would accept return of the goods but that it could look into things for her if she 
was unable to resolve the issue directly with D.
While I think Creation made a mistake in telling Ms H that she couldn’t cancel the agreement, she 
was required to pay the funds back to do so and overall I think the advice Creation provided Ms H 
at that point was reasonable. I say this because if D hadn’t accepted return of the goods then she 
would have had to either raise a section 75 claim with Creation or would still be liable to repay the 
full account balance.
section 75 claim
Section 75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the lender that finances a purchase can 
be held jointly liable if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. So, 
if I thought D had misrepresented the goods to Ms H or breached its contract to supply and 
deliver the goods to her I would ask Creation to do something to put this right.
I can consider Ms H’s complaints about the fridge not being the one she wanted, damage to her 
worktop caused by the delivery, the problems she encountered with the fridge and the loss of food 
as a result of those problems. But I note that Ms H is also unhappy about the customer service 
received from D. Creation are only responsible under section 75 for putting right a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier but not for customer service provided - so 
that’s not something I can hold Creation responsible for.
I’ve also thought about whether Creation should have dealt with Ms H’s complaint under section 
75 when she let it know about the problems she was having with D. But I think the advice to try 
and sort things out with D was reasonable - she was already in discussions with D about the 
quality of the fridge, the delivery and the customer service she received so Creation couldn’t have 
helped her deal with all her complaints about D. So, it made sense for Ms H to follow her 
complaint about D before raising a section 75 claim with Creation. And ultimately D did agree to 
accept return of both the fridge and freezer. But as Ms H remains unhappy with both Creation and 
D’s responses, I’ve considered whether Creation should have done more to resolve Ms H’s 
concerns.
was the fridge mis-represented?
Ms H has said she originally wanted to buy a particular brand of fridge, but D’s advisor couldn’t 
process that fridge through buy now pay later in her original visit and then when she returned it 
was out of stock. She says she never wanted the fridge that she actually purchased.
For me to determine the fridge had been mis-represented to Ms H I would need to be satisfied that 
advisor had made a false statement of fact about the fridge which induced her into buying it. 
Although it wasn’t Ms H’s first choice, I haven’t seen anything which suggests that any of the 
Ref: DRN1463049
6
functions or features of the fridge was misrepresented or that she received anything other than the 
fridge she ordered. So, I don’t think the fridge was misrepresented.
Even if I were to conclude that the fridge had been misrepresented and Ms H wouldn’t have gone 
ahead with the purchase, then to put that right I would expect Ms H to be able to return the fridge 
and get a refund which has already happened. So, I don’t think Creation needs to do anything else 
to address this aspect of Ms H’s complaint.
damaged worktops
Delivery was included as part of Ms H’s contract with D. So, if her worktops had been damaged 
by D’s delivery drivers then I think it would be reasonable for Creation to put that right when 
reviewing her section 75 claim.
After sending someone to inspect the damage to Ms H’s worktops, D eventually offered her £150 
towards repairing the damage / replacing the workshop. Ms H wasn’t happy with this offer and has 
explained this has left her short by £126 as the quote for repair she’d obtained was £276. But she 
did ultimately accept the offer and I haven’t seen any evidence which shows Ms H has actually 
spent more than this on fixing the damage. So, I don’t think Creation needs to do anything else do 
put this right.
was the fridge of satisfactory quality?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) creates an implied term into a contract for goods that they 
will be free from minor defects and that a consumer has the short time right to reject them – so if 
goods aren’t of satisfactory quality the consumer has the right to return them if they ask to do so 
within 30 days.
In this instance Ms H had asked to return the fridge within 30 days and this was ultimately accepted 
by D. Although Ms H has said the fridge was faulty, I haven’t seen enough evidence to say for sure 
that it wasn’t working as it should. But even if I was satisfied that the fridge was faulty then I don’t 
think I would ask Creation to do anything more to put things right. I say this because D has already 
accepted return of the both the fridge and freezer. So, Ms H has been able to reject the goods, so I 
think any breach of contract has already been put right in that respect and I don’t think Creation 
needs to do anything more. It’s also worth pointing out that Ms H had only complained about the 
quality of the fridge not the freezer too but received a full refund for both - which is more than I 
would have asked Creation to do.
Ms H has also mentioned that food was spoiled due to faults with the fridge. As I explained above, 
I’ve not seen enough evidence to conclude that the fridge was faulty so I can’t say the food was 
spoiled for this reason and I’m not going to ask Creation to make any payment towards this. But 
even if I were satisfied that the food perished as a result of faults with the fridge, I would need to 
see evidence of what food Ms H had lost and how much this had cost her, which I haven’t seen so 
far.
account administration
Ms H says she contacted Creation to request a copy of her credit agreement on 22 September 
2018. I do think Creation should have sent Ms H a full copy of the agreement sooner than it did, 
and I can see she had to request it a couple of times before she received everything. Ms H did 
receive a full
copy around three weeks later so there was a slight delay in providing the agreement and I think 
Ms H would have been caused some trouble and upset by having to chase Creation to receive the 
full copy of the agreement,
Ms H has said Creation should have closed her account straight away after receiving the refund from
Ref: DRN1463049
7
C. Creation’s phone notes show that Ms H had asked for the account to be closed several times 
before the goods were collected. I can see D told Creation the goods had been collected on 22 
October 2018 and the account was closed the following day. This was confirmed to Ms H when 
she called Creation on 23 October 2018 and Creation also confirmed this by email shortly after. I 
think Creation dealt with this request in a timely manner once it received confirmation that the 
goods had been returned to D. So, I don’t think it needs to do anything more
Ms H has also complained that £50 was debited and credited from her account with Creation 
after it was closed. This appears to be a result of an administration issue and ties up with when 
Ms H was offered compensation by Creation. Although Ms H is unhappy that there was activity 
on the account
after it was closed, I can see this was just Creation’s administration in arranging her compensation 
payment. Ms H hasn’t been asked to pay anything and I don’t think Creation made a mistake here.
Ms H has complained that she doesn’t think Creation has sent her everything she’s entitled to after 
she made a subject access request. I can see she’s already been in contact with the information 
commissioner’s office (ICO) regarding this issue and I think that’s the most appropriate avenue for 
her to follow up this aspect of her complaint so I’m not going to consider this further.
Overall, I think Creation’s offer of £50 compensation is reasonable compensation for its 
administration errors and I don’t think it needs to do anything else to put things right.
my provisional decision
Subject to any further evidence I receive from either side, I do not intend to uphold this complaint. I 
think Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer to put things right was fair, so I don’t intend to make 
any additional award against it.
Ref: DRN1463049
