K821x#15
complaint
Mr P says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a loan over the phone in 2005. The cost of the policy was added to the 
loan and repaid over the loan term, with interest.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had told Mr P he had a 
choice about buying the policy – or clearly told him what it would cost, or that he’d only get a 
limited refund if he cancelled it early. 
Creation disagreed. It said Mr P only provisionally accepted the policy over the phone and 
had a chance to turn it down when he signed the loan agreement. It also said the 
cancellation period was set out in the policy document.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr P’s case. I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
Creation had to make clear to Mr P that he didn’t have to buy the policy if he didn’t want it. I 
don’t think it did that in this case.
I’m concerned that the script Creation sent to us doesn’t give any indication that it would’ve 
told Mr P the policy was optional, or asked him for his clear and explicit consent to add the 
PPI to his loan. The script does mention quotes ‘with and without’ PPI – but it doesn’t say 
what form those quotes took, or how Creation delivered them to Mr P. 
The loan agreement Creation sent out after the call did give Mr P a chance to sign one of 
two boxes; one to ‘join’ the payment protection plan and the other not to. But by then the PPI 
looked like an integral part of the loan. And I see the adviser also put a large cross next to 
the ‘I wish to join’ box, which I think would’ve undermined any impression of choice Mr P 
might have had. It’s more likely he just signed where he was told to – and Mr P has himself 
said he was told he had to take the PPI to get the loan. 
So I’m not satisfied that Creation made Mr P clearly aware that he didn’t have to buy the PPI 
if he didn’t want to. 
I also don’t think Creation did enough to make Mr P aware of what the policy cost. The script 
doesn’t suggest the costs were explained in much detail at all. And the loan agreement only 
showed the initial amount Mr P had borrowed to pay for the policy (the single premium) as a 
separate figure. It didn’t show the interest he was being charged on that initial cost, or the 
total cost of it. 
The statement of price did show the interest and the total cost – but it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr P would expect it to be. And Creation 
sent all of this information about what the policy cost to Mr P after he’d effectively agreed to 
buy it over the phone. So it didn’t help him make an informed choice.  
Ref: DRN1872481
2
Mr P has told us he took out the loan to refinance existing debts. So it’s possible he’d want 
to do so again in future. But the policy only offered a very limited refund if it was cancelled 
early – meaning it would cost Mr P more if he wanted to refinance his loan. In his 
circumstances I think this was important information Mr P needed to know, but it wasn’t 
mentioned at all in the script.
I’ve thought about the fact that Mr P apparently didn’t have any other ways to pay his loan 
payments if he was too sick to work or lost his job. But I’ve weighed that against the fact that 
Creation didn’t give him a real choice about buying it – and didn’t properly tell him what it 
was costing him or how inflexible it was if he wanted to refinance his loan. 
I don’t think Mr P would have bought the policy if Creation had done everything it should 
have done during the sale. So I uphold this complaint.
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand that the loan and PPI have now ended. But Mr P borrowed extra to pay for the 
PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he paid more than he should have 
each month. Mr P now needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr P the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr P paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr P the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2016.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1872481
