K821x#14
complain
Mr G says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2005, Mr G bought a sofa in a shop and he took out a £1,099.00 loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £423.63, which was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr G wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £377.76 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr G’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr G would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr G was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr G’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr G’s complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that Creation didn’t properly tell Mr G how much the policy cost. I 
say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr G bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t show 
the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr G to work out the 
interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of 
the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr G would expect it to be. And I can’t be sure 
it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his attention was on 
buying a sofa – not on buying insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr G to understand what the policy was costing him.  
Ref: DRN1120606
2

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr G aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay the 
loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest 
at 29.8%. This meant Mr G would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr G was borrowing. This was unusual and I think Mr 
G would’ve seen it as important information when deciding to buy the policy especially as 
he was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly short term. 

I don’t think Mr G would’ve bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of how 
much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr G’s complaint. 
what Creation should do to put things right
Mr G should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr G because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr G had taken out the loan 
without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr G actually paid, and paying him the difference; 
and

paying Mr G simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr G setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr G needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr G should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr G and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
Ref: DRN1120606
3
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr G’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr G compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2015.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN1120606
