K821x#12
complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy. 
background
In 2006 Mr W bought leather goods in a store and he took out a £499 loan to pay for them. 
At the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £227.96, which was added 
to the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr W wouldn’t pay interest if he paid 
off the credit before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including interest on the policy) 
over the remaining 36 months of the loan.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mr W’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mr W would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr W was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr W’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr W how much the policy cost. I say this because:
•
The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr W bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr W to 
work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr W to understand what the policy was 
costing him.  
•
The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr W aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 29.8%. This meant Mr W would pay a substantial extra amount of 
interest on the PPI cost in the first year.     
•
The PPI premium was high compared to the amount Mr W was borrowing. This was 
unusual and I think Mr W would have seen it as important information when deciding 
Ref: DRN1270706
2
whether to buy the policy. Especially as he was borrowing quite a modest amount 
over a fairly short term. 
•
I don’t think Mr W would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
fair compensation 
Mr W should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. My understanding is that Mr W’s loan and policy should have reached their 
full terms. 
Creation should now therefore: 
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr W because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr W had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mr W actually paid, and paying him the 
difference; and
•
paying Mr W simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†. 
B.
Write to Mr W setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr W needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr W should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr W 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr W’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must pay Mr W fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Kristina Mathews
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN1270706
