K821x#15
complaint
Mr W’s complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) refused to cancel a 
finance agreement for solar panels.
background
Mr W paid M to supply and fit solar panels to his home. He paid for them with a ten-year loan 
from Creation.
He said he bought the solar panels because M told him they would save him money. He said 
he was told the panels would generate enough income to cover the loan repayments and he 
would make savings on his electricity bill. However, this hasn’t happened and he’s now 
finding it hard to make the repayments. 
Mr W and his wife both receive state pensions. His wife also receives attendance allowance.
He complained to Creation. He said M mis-sold the solar panels by saying they would save 
him money. He asked it to end the agreement and remove the panels. 
Creation said the performance of solar panels is unpredictable and the paperwork, which he 
signed, showed it would be impossible for them to generate enough income to cover the 
repayments.
In the meantime, M offered to help make the agreement more affordable for him. It said 
either he could accept a goodwill gesture of £50 per month for a minimum period of 2 years; 
or he could hand over the benefits from the solar panels to a third party who would pay off 
the loan. M also said it was irresponsible to lend money to someone receiving a state 
pension.
Mr W wasn’t happy with the response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought the contract was unaffordable and that he would not have signed up to 
such a commitment if he’d been made fully aware the benefits weren’t guaranteed.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the paperwork, the estimated annual benefit from the solar panels, for first year, 
was £485. The estimated annual average over a ten-year period (which is the loan period) 
would’ve been £583. This includes savings made on electricity bills.
It’s clear from these figures the solar panels wouldn’t have generated enough income to 
cover the monthly loan repayments and there would’ve been a shortfall for Mr W to cover. 
On top of that, he was still paying for electricity, although he did make some small savings.
As he and his wife both receive a state pension, I don’t think he would’ve bought the solar 
panels if he knew he would be using his pension to repay the loan. So the question is, why 
did he? I think it’s very likely the salesperson told him the solar panels would pay for 
themselves. But this is only true after several years. 
Ref: DRN2235454
2
I think the salesperson was referring to the break-even estimate – the number of years it 
takes to recoup the cost of the solar panels. Using the figures provided by M, I calculate it 
would take 15 years before Mr W would recoup the cost of the solar panels:
Total cost of panels 
£11, 725.20 (A)
Estimated annual average income (over 25 years)
£      768      (B)
Break even estimate (A) divided by (B)
15 years
Given his age and financial situation, I don’t think Mr W would’ve bought the solar panels or 
taken out the loan if he knew he would recoup the cost after 15 years. 
He said he’s finding it difficult to repay the loan. Creation thinks the loan is affordable 
because he said his income is £980 and his expenditure is £380. 
I’ve seen a recently prepared income and expenditure breakdown. It shows that Mr W and 
his wife have a disposable monthly income of less than £200. From this sum, he has to find 
the monthly shortfall on the loan. He’s currently overdrawn on his bank account.  
I agree with our adjudicator that the loan is unaffordable for Mr W and I think, given his 
financial situation, it was unaffordable when he bought the solar panels. 
In these circumstances, I think the solar panels were mis-sold to him and the loan is 
unaffordable. I think he expected the solar panels to generate enough income to cover the 
loan repayments and this was an important consideration for him because of his financial 
situation. 
I don’t think he would’ve bought them if he knew there would be a shortfall on the monthly 
loan repayments, which he would have to pay from his pension.
So, I think it’s more likely than not he was told the solar panels would pay for themselves 
and I don’t think M explained it could take 15 years for him to reap the benefits. Again, I don’t 
think he would’ve bought the panels if he knew this.
I agree with our adjudicator that Creation should terminate the credit agreement. But I don’t 
think it would be fair and reasonable  to refund the payments he’s made because he’s 
benefited from some savings on his electricity bill.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

terminate the credit agreement with Mr W

arrange for the removal of the solar panels at no extra cost to him

remedy any damage caused by the installation and removal of the panels.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2016.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235454
