K821x#15
complaint
Mr S complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sold to him in 2005 over the telephone. The cost of the 
policy was added to Mr S’s loan and he repaid it over the loan term.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had made it clear to Mr S 
that he had a choice about taking out the policy. Creation disagreed. It said the sales script 
and loan agreement would’ve made to clear to Mr S that the policy was optional. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr S’s case.
Creation haven’t been able to give us a call recording of it’s conversation with Mr S. And 
hasn’t been able to give us a copy of the call script it says would’ve been used when it sold 
Mr S the PPI policy. But Creation has previously given us copies of four of its call scripts and 
like the adjudicator, I’ve looked at these along with the paperwork Creation has been able to 
give us, which includes Mr S’s signed loan agreement, and a sample demands and needs 
statement.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr S’s complaint, because:

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mr S over the phone. So I think he would’ve relied 
more on what he was told during the call than on anything he got in writing afterwards. 
But from looking at the call scripts we have I don’t think Creation would’ve made it clear 
during its telephone call that Mr S had a choice about buying the policy. 

All of the scripts are short. And don’t tell the call handler to clearly explain that the policy 
was optional, or get Mr S’s consent to add it to his loan. Although two of the scripts said 
to give quotes ‘with and without’ PPI, it isn’t clear how they were explained, or what Mr S 
was told.  

The brief mention of cancellation rights in the scripts wasn’t enough to make Mr S aware 
he had a choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given him the confidence 
to cancel the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told him he had a choice about 
whether to buy it.  

I can see that Mr S ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that didn’t 
describe the PPI as optional. And by then the PPI looked like an integral part of the loan. 
The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mr S didn’t tick and sign. And although 
the very last sentence on the statement of price said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan 
to buy the policy, this could be easily overlooked. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr S’s complaint. 
Ref: DRN2529417
2
what Creation should do to put things right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr S needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
I know Mr S has complained that Creation shouldn’t have sold him the policy because he 
was self-employed. But I’ve not made a finding on this point because the reasons above are 
enough to make me think Mr S’s complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr S’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr S compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2016.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2529417
