K822x
complaint
Mrs G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under S 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 regarding fitted furniture.
background 
Mrs G order fitted bedroom furniture for her daughter’s and her son’s bedrooms to be 
installed in July 2014. The installation of her son’s furniture was not completed until January 
2015. She said that she had to delay fitting carpet in the room and her son endured a cold, 
unfinished bedroom for some six months. I gather that some of the fittings were damaged 
and some of the shelving was incomplete and these were the cause of the delay. Mrs G 
made a complaint to the supplier and I understand the furniture was fixed. 
The supplier says that the first it was aware of any problems was in September and that its 
fitters called on two occasions to carry out the work, but Mrs G was not in. It says that 
although the wardrobe was not complete it was still usable. Mrs G also complained that a rail 
was too high for her or her son, but the supplier says it was fitted as set out in the design. 
Mrs G made a claim under S 75 and was offered £100 compensation initially which was 
increased to £150. She then brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that it be upheld. She did not consider that there had 
been a breach of contract and that fitted furniture had now been properly and fully installed 
to the agreed design. After the adjudicator shared her view with Mrs G and the business it 
agreed to increase its offer of compensation to £200. Mrs G did not accept the offer and said 
she wanted to pay only half the cost.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that Mrs G and her son had to wait for six months for the fitting of the 
bedroom furniture to be completed. It has now been properly fitted and I am not aware that 
Mrs G has any further problems with it. I appreciate that she and her son find that a rail is too 
high for them, but I am satisfied that it has been fitted in accordance with the agreed design. 
The problems that she had have been resolved by the supplier and the only issue is to 
consider what compensation is reasonable. 
Calculating awards of compensation for trouble and upset is not a scientific exercise, and it 
is not our role to punish the business. I accept that Mrs G has been caused some trouble 
and upset and that she has spent time pursuing the matter. However, in all the 
circumstances, and bearing in mind the general levels of awards this service makes in this 
area, I consider that £200 is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN2601270
2
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs G £200 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I 
am required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2015.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2601270
