K821x#14
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a £7,500 loan by telephone in 2007. The cost of the 
policy was added to the loan and repaid over the loan term.  
background
Two adjudicators looked at Mr C’s complaint. Both upheld it. They didn’t think Creation had 
told Mr C he had a choice about buying the policy. And they also didn’t think it properly told 
him how much it would cost. The adjudicators didn’t think Mr C would have bought the policy 
if he’d known these things.  
Creation disagreed. It said the sales script and loan agreement made clear the policy was 
optional. And the paperwork it sent to Mr C also explained what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr C’s complaint, because:

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mr C over the phone. So he would have relied 
more on what he was told during the call than on anything he got in writing afterwards. 
But Creation didn’t make clear during the telephone call that Mr C had a choice about 
buying the policy. 

The script is short. It didn’t tell the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was 
optional, or get Mr C’s consent to add it to his loan. Although the script said to give 
quotes ‘with and without’ PPI, it isn’t clear how they were explained, or what Mr C was 
told.  

The brief mention of cancellation rights wasn’t enough to make Mr C aware he had a 
choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given him the confidence to cancel 
the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told him he had a choice about whether to 
buy it.  

I can see that Mr C ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that didn’t 
describe the PPI as optional. And by then the PPI looked like an integral part of the loan. 
The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mr C didn’t tick and sign. And although 
the very last sentence on the statement of price said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan 
to buy the policy, this could be easily overlooked. 

The script didn’t properly disclose the policy costs. The credit agreement did set out the 
single premium (£1,596.77) and the total cost of the PPI. But it didn’t set out the interest 
(£559.26) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to expect Mr C to work out 
that figure for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the 
cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement. 
Ref: DRN2234091
2

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr C would expect it to be.   

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would have 
been good practice and it might have helped Mr C to better understand what the policy 
was costing him.  

I don’t think Mr C would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware he had 
a choice, or if he’d known how much it was going to cost him, compared to the amount of 
the loan and what he was paying for it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr C’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr C should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr C because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr C had taken out the loan 
without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr C actually paid, and paying him the difference; 
and

paying Mr C simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr C setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr C needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr C should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr C and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
Ref: DRN2234091
3
my final decision
I uphold Mr C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2014.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2234091
