K820x#14
complaint
Mr U complains he had a pre- agreed credit limit with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd but 
when he went to make a purchase in December 2017, his application was referred for further 
checks. He feels the website and agreement is misleading.
background
Mr U had previously had an application for credit with Creation approved with a credit limit of 
£2,200. In December 2017 he went to buy two mobile phones but was told his application 
would need to be referred for further checks. He says this isn’t made clear on the company’s 
website or the agreement and he feels it’s misleading. He says the agreement should be 
reworded to say each application may be subject to further checks.
Mr U would like compensation for the inconvenience and upset in having to go back to the 
store the next day and for the delay in dealing with his complaint.
Creation said although Mr U’s initial application had been approved with an agreed credit 
limit, this didn’t mean it wouldn’t also carry out checks on any subsequent purchases. These 
checks were part of the application process so it didn’t agree they were unfair.
Our adjudicator said acknowledged Mr U’s concerns about how the website was worded but 
said it wasn’t for this office to tell the company what to put on its website. In this case 
Creation had had some concerns about possible misuse of Mr U’s account and this had lead 
to the referral in December 2017. This was part of the business’s responsibility to protect its 
customers- and it was within the terms and conditions of the account – so he didn’t think it 
was unfair. And the application had been approved within 24 hours which he thought was 
reasonable. He noted Mr U’s concerns about the wording of the agreement and the website 
but said it wasn’t for this office to tell the company what to write.
Mr U responded and repeated his view that the wording on the website and agreement didn’t 
make it clear that further checks could be made even though credit had been approved. He 
felt this could potentially affect a large number of people and should be changed. He asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I won’t be asking 
Creation Consumer Finance to do anything more as I’ll now explain.
I can see Mr U feels the website should be more transparent about the way the account 
works, in particular that more checks might be required. But as the adjudicator has said, the 
wording of the website is a matter for the business and its regulator and is outside of the 
scope of this decision. I note however that the business has acknowledged Mr U’s concerns 
on this and offered to look at this in the future.
In this case however I don’t consider Creation acted unreasonably. Mr U’s purchase in 
December 2017 was referred because it flagged up some concerns about the account. Like 
all lenders, Creation is required to have robust processes in place to protect their customers 
against fraud or other misuse and for that reason, I don’t think it was unreasonable of it to 
make further checks to satisfy itself on this.
Ref: DRN2364219
2
I can also see that the terms and conditions of this agreement allowed Creation to either 
change the terms of the agreement or to take steps if it suspected misuse so again I can’t 
say it was being unreasonable in making the checks it did. And the checks were completed 
and the application approved within 24 hours so I think the timescale was appropriate.
I can see how strongly Mr U felt about what happened but for the reasons given I don’t 
consider Creation acted in appropriately or unfairly so I won’t be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2018.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2364219
