K820x#12
complain
Miss Q complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to her. 
background
In 2006 Miss Q bought a sofa in a shop and she took out a £1,698 loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold her a PPI policy. The policy cost £632.03, which was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Miss Q wouldn’t pay interest if she paid 
off the credit before that date. Otherwise she’d pay interest (including £563.60 of interest on 
the policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Q’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Miss Q would have bought the policy if 
it had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Miss Q was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss Q’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Miss Q how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Miss Q bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Miss Q to work 
out the interest herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the 
cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Miss Q would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a shop and her attention 
was on buying a sofa – not on buying insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Miss Q to understand what the policy was costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Miss Q aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 29.8%. This meant Miss Q would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on 
the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN2362212
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Miss Q was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Miss Q would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as she was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly short term. 

I don’t think Miss Q would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Miss Q’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Miss Q should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Miss Q because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Miss Q had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Miss Q actually paid, and paying her the 
difference; and

paying Miss Q simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Miss Q setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Miss Q needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Miss Q should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And 
Miss Q and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more 
about the tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Q’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2014.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2362212
