K820x#14
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) wrongly reported adverse 
information to his credit file.
background
Mr C bought a product in July 2018 using his Creation account. But he wasn’t happy with the 
quality and returned it. He contacted Creation and they returned his payments and cancelled 
his direct debit. But they failed to cancel the finance arrangement Mr C had established with 
them. This led them to send him arrears letters and to wrongly report arrears to his credit file. 
Mr C complained to Creation and they amended his credit file on 20 September to put things 
right. They also paid him £75 to compensate him for the inconvenience their mistake had 
caused. But Mr C wasn’t satisfied with their response. He noticed that his credit card 
balance, with another company, had been reduced from £12,000 to only £500 and he 
suspected it was because of the erroneous credit reporting. So he wanted Creation to 
provide substantial compensation in recognition of the impact their mistake had had on his 
reputation and credit worthiness.
Dissatisfied with Creation’s response he referred his complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided her opinion. She explained that she couldn’t be certain Mr C’s credit 
limit had been reduced as a result of the errors made by Creation, as she noted that the 
credit card company in question hadn’t made any searches on Mr C’s file during 2018. She 
thought the compensation offered by Creation had been reasonable in the circumstances.
But Mr C disagreed. He said he spent hours on the phone trying to remedy the situation with 
Creation and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve reviewed Mr C’s credit file and can see he manages his accounts well. So I can 
understand his frustration with the error made by Creation. But, whilst I accept there’s been 
an error and it’s taken some time to resolve, I don’t think there’s evidence that Mr C has 
suffered financially here and I think the action Creation have taken is therefore sufficient.
I’m aware that will probably be unwelcome news for Mr C; so please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
There’s no dispute that a mistake was made and I can see from Mr C’s credit file that his 
account was wrongly reported in arrears in August 2018. 
Ref: DRN2962279
2
He had to make calls to get the situation rectified and it took until 20 September to do so. I 
think, in those circumstances, Creation were right to compensate him for the inconvenience 
caused but I think £75 was sufficient.
I’m not persuaded that it’s most likely his credit card limit was reduced because of the 
arrears that were reported on his file. I say that because:

there’s no record of any search made by Halifax on his credit file in the relevant 
period

it’s clear the account was shown as settled on his August credit file. I think this would 
have been the information that was reviewed, if at all, ahead of any credit limit 
changes in September

there was reference to a period of arrears on the August credit file but it was also 
clear the debt had been settled. 

there were several other credit cards balances on file and these credit limits 
remained unaltered
And even if I’m wrong that the arrears on his Creation account weren’t responsible for the 
reduced credit limit, I don’t think the limit reduction had a significant financial impact on Mr C. 
I can see that he still had significant credit available to him on his other cards and he was 
staying within his credit limit on the card in question.
So whilst I can see that this was a frustrating incident and Mr C had to spend time putting 
things right, I think the level of compensation that’s already been paid is sufficient and I don’t 
think it would be reasonable to ask Creation to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2962279
