K820x#14
complaint
Mr H complains that he didn’t sign a fixed sum loan agreement withCreation Consumer 
Finance Ltd so the contract is invalid.
background
Mr H ordered a mattress from a retailer in August 2016. He paid a £500 deposit and agreed 
to pay the balance using a fixed sum loan with Creation. The mattress was delivered at the 
end of December 2016. Mr H says he was contacted before the mattress was delivered 
because Creation didn’t have his e-signature on the agreement. He says that although he 
returned to the shop to arrange delivery, he didn’t provide an e-signature, so the contract is 
invalid.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the agreement was created in August 2016, the e-signature process was completed in 
December 2016 and that Creation acted fairly by not taking payments until the mattress had 
been delivered.
Mr H didn’t agree. He said, in summary, that in December 2016 he was tricked into signing 
the contract. He should’ve been told that, because the contract hadn’t been completed in 
August 2016, he had the right to cancel the order. He could’ve then ordered the mattress in 
the sale.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H paid a deposit for the mattress in August 2016 and said he wanted to pay the balance 
through the fixed sum loan with Creation. He told us he changed the delivery date several 
times because he wasn’t ready to receive the mattress. He decided he wanted the mattress 
delivered in December and says he was told by the shop that he’d have to visit it to make 
arrangements. But Creation says he had to visit the shop to provide his e-signature.
It’s not clear why Mr H’s e-signature wasn’t obtained in August 2016. Or, if it was, why it was 
no longer valid four months’ later. But the retailer’s records show that it spoke to Mr H to tell 
him he needed to re-sign the agreement. It offered to compensate him by waiving its delivery 
charge and its records show that Mr H then agreed to visit the shop to sign the agreement. 
I don’t find that Mr H was “tricked” into signing it as he suggests.
Mr H took delivery of the mattress in December 2016 and I find that it’s fair and reasonable 
he should pay for it. He agreed to make the monthly payments for the duration of the 
agreement. He may have changed his mind now – particularly if he’s seen a similar item at a 
lower price – but I don’t find that Creation has acted wrongly and it’s fair that he should repay 
the sum he owes under the terms of the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN2444592
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2018.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2444592
