K820x#11
complaint
This complaint concerns the sale of a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in connection with retail finance in March 2006. The PPI had a term of three years, 
the same term as the loan; 12 months free credit was offered, and the loan and 
PPI repayments were effectively deferred for 12 months. During this ‘special offer’ period, 
the PPI policy offered free life cover. Thereafter, for the three years the finance would run if 
full payment for the goods was not made on the special offer date, it provided benefit for 
accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover.
Mrs G considers Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acted unfairly in the way the PPI policy 
was sold to her.
background
I issued a provisional decision in April 2013, upholding the complaint. I gave reasons and 
invited comment. Neither party has chosen to comment substantively on my provisional 
decision, and so I now revisit the complaint with a view to making a final decision. 
my findings
I have again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I confirmed that my principal concern was that the optional nature 
of the policy had not been made clear. I gave reasons for my conclusion that it had not, in 
fact, been made clear: 
I acknowledged that, in completing her loan application, Mrs G had ticked and signed to 
confirm she wished to purchase the PPI protection, and that the additional costs of the 
PPI policy were set out in the loan agreement and within the statement of price on its 
reverse. These are potentially persuasive indicators that the optional nature of the policy 
may have been made clear, but I also emphasised that the only direct reference to the 
optional nature of the cover was at the foot of the reverse of the loan agreement – so it was 
hardly ‘highlighted’.
And I also bear in mind that the PPI policy offered free life cover for a year and that its costs 
would never ‘bite’ if full payment was made for the goods when the ‘special offer’ date came 
around. But, in this case, there are a number of strong, contrary indicators, sufficient to 
persuade me that Mrs G hadn’t been given a clear understanding that the policy was – for 
her – optional. 

Mrs G provides clear and consistent testimony that she was concentrating on a 
‘technical’ purchase – for the focus was on the product not the finance. I believe her.

She says that the sales adviser’s entire focus was on the ‘12 months free credit’ aspect 
of the transaction, and that PPI wasn’t mentioned at all – she says that she didn’t even 
know that she had purchased PPI until much later, when the loan repayments 
commenced.
Ref: DRN2335133
2

She says she was directed where to sign in the context of a transaction in which her 
focus lay elsewhere: that is consistent with the loan agreement signature spaces 
(including that for the PPI) being clearly marked up by the sales adviser.

And then, and significantly, Mrs G provides clear testimony as to her need for PPI, or 
rather the lack of it, and her attitude to this type of insurance; employed as a health 
service worker she had significant sick pay entitlements and (after 20 years service) 
substantial accrued redundancy rights – so when she says that she invariably declined 
offerings of PPI, I can see why this might be the case.

And further, here, she was borrowing a very small sum; under £600. She says that she 
only did so because of the offer of free credit, and that she would otherwise have paid for 
the goods in full. She says that she fully intended to pay the finance off at the 12 month 
point, but forgot to do so. And she confirms that she has savings of around £6,000. So 
again, this testimony is plausible and persuasive.

Finally, she says that the offer of ‘free’ life cover for 12 months was incidental to her, as 
she had savings, and other life insurance provision, in which context the repayment of a 
£600 finance commitment would simply not have been an issue. 
Taking all of these factors into consideration, and noting that Creation is unable to provide 
any clear sales guidance or script which would give me added comfort that the optional 
nature of the cover was highlighted during the sale, I am inclined to view Mrs G’s testimony, 
in conjunction with her circumstances, as the more persuasive indicators here about how the 
policy was sold. 
I am left with the impression that she took the policy because it was presented as ‘part and 
parcel’ of a deal which, given the circumstances of the sale, and the emphasis upon the 
availability of free finance, she might not have considered in great detail. 
On this basis, and in the absence of further argument from Creation, I remain satisfied that 
the optional nature of the policy was not made clear, and that I should uphold the complaint 
on this basis.
My provisional decision also highlighted additional concerns – in particular, that Mrs G was 
not provided with a sufficient opportunity to make an informed decision based on cost before 
she was committed to take out the policy by signing for it, but I do not propose to labour 
those concerns further; my fundamental concern is about how the optional nature of the 
policy was represented – or not – and those reasons are sufficient for me to uphold this 
complaint on its facts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
From the evidence that I have seen, it seems to me most likely that, if Mrs G had not bought 
the PPI policies, she would still have taken out the loan – in order to avail herself of the free 
finance available. Therefore, she should be placed back in the position she would have been 
in had the PPI policies not been sold. To that end, and as the loan and PPI policy have now 
come to an end, I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
Ref: DRN2335133
3
(A)
calculate, and pay Mrs G the amount of the net payments she made in respect of the 
PPI (including any interest and charges), by comparing:

the payments actually made; 
­
the payments which would have applied if she had taken the loan without PPI; 
and
­
add interest on each of these net payments at the rate of 8% per year simple† 
from the date of each payment to the date the compensation is paid; and
(B)
set out in writing the details of the calculations under (A).
† – This part of the compensation may be subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of 
the compensation in Mrs G’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic 
rate tax from the compensation, and Mrs G’s financial circumstances. More information 
about the tax position can be found on our website. Mrs G should refer back to the business 
if she is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both parties should contact HM Revenue 
and Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
Geoffrey Futer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335133
