K821x#14
complaint
Mrs E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, failed to set up a direct debit and as a 
result her account fell into arrears and a default was marked on her credit file. She wants the 
default removed and compensation for distress and inconvenience.
background
Mrs E bought furniture on finance from Creation for her new home. She did not tell Creation 
she was moving but did tell the supplier. She says she did not know that the supplier and 
finance company were separate and so did not think she needed to tell them both her new 
address. She set up a direct debit to pay for the furniture, but this did not work and so 
payments were not made. Because she had moved address, she did not receive notification 
that the direct debit had failed and never received any letters or default notices from 
Creation. She was tracked down by debt collectors and immediately made payments for the 
goods. Later, she tried to get a mortgage and was turned down as a default had been 
marked on her account. As she was unable to get a mortgage she wasted the Valuation Fee 
on the house she was planning to buy.
Creation says Mrs E cancelled the direct debit. It sent notices to the address it had on file for 
her. The default accurately reflects her account and it is not at fault.
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He said on balance, he did not think Creation set up 
the direct debit. Although, Creation say its records confirm a direct debit was cancelled. It 
was unable to provide a copy of the message sent through the banking system to Mrs E’s 
bank setting up the direct debit. He took into account that her bank had historic notes which 
show it did not get a request to set up a direct debit. And Mrs E says she never cancelled the 
direct debit. Further, Mrs E gave authority to set up a new direct debit and paid towards the 
debt as soon as she was contacted by collection agents. This evidenced her intention to 
always pay the debt. Taking all this into account he thought that Creation were at fault for not 
setting up the direct debit.
The adjudicator said that Creation should;

remove the default and any adverse data;

pay back any charges and interest that would not have been paid if the direct debit 
had not been cancelled;

pay her £200 for the trouble and upset caused;

pay her £275 valuation fee 
Creation did not accept this and is not prepared to pay compensation or remove the default. 
It subsequently provided a screen shot that says the direct debit was cancelled by Mrs E. 
Creation also maintains it sent multiple arrears letters to Mrs E. 
The adjudicator maintained his view that Creation had not set up the direct debit. There was 
no evidence that it ever set the direct debit up. Mrs E informed the supplier of the furniture 
that she had changed address and it was not unreasonable for her to think that she did not 
also need to tell the finance company. 
Ref: DRN2327892
2
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator for much the same reasons. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Creation has provided a screen shot which says Mrs E cancelled the direct debit. Mrs E says 
she did not cancel the direct debit and her bank confirms that it never received an instruction 
from Creation to set one up. Creation has been unable to provide a message from it to Mrs 
E’s bank setting up the direct debit. I agree with the adjudicator that there is no independent 
documentation to support what Creation is saying. Mrs E and her bank both contradict what 
Creation say. On balance, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not that Creation failed to 
set up the direct debit. If it had set up the direct debit, Mrs E wouldn’t have got into arrears 
and a default would not have been recorded on her credit file. Mrs E immediately began 
payment once she was aware of the debt, which evidenced her intention to pay. I do not 
accept that she cancelled the direct debit. I find that Creation failed to set up the direct debit 
and Mrs E lost out financially.
I find that it was not unreasonable for Mrs E to believe that she only needed to tell the 
supplier about her new address. I accept she generally believed the finance company and 
the supplier were the same and she did not need to notify both. I accept that she did not 
receive the letters from Creation as they went to her old address and this was not her fault.
Our adjudicator considered that Mrs E had suffered some distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the problems with the payment. I agree, and given the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, consider that our adjudicator’s proposed award of £200 is fair and reasonable. 
She has also lost out on a house and incurred the Valuation Report costs. I also think it is 
fair and reasonable to compensate her for this loss.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to;
1.
remove the default and any adverse data from Mrs E’s credit file;
2.
pay back any charges and interest that were incurred as a result of the direct 
debit being cancelled;
3.
pay £275 Valuation Report Fee. (Mrs E to send Creation a copy of the 
invoice);
4.
pay her £200 for the trouble and upset caused
5.
Pay interest at 8% simple on 2 and 3 from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2015.
Ref: DRN2327892
3
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2327892
