K820x#14
complaint
Ms G complains that a sofa she bought through a credit agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited (Creation) wasn’t fit for purpose. She wants to return the sofa and get a 
refund of the payments she has made.
background
Ms G took out a credit agreement with Creation in December 2015 to buy a sofa. She 
received the sofa in January 2016. She complained in February 2017 that the sofa wasn’t 
suitable for her as she has back problems. She says the sofa is too low and she sinks into it. 
She doesn’t feel the sofa is fit for purpose. She would like to return it, cancel her payments 
and get a refund of the payments she has made.
Creation says that Ms G had the sofa for over a year when she complained about it. A report 
has shown there’s no manufacturing problem with the sofa. It believes it is fit for purpose. So 
doesn’t feel there are any grounds to return it or to refund payments Ms G has already 
made.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He didn’t feel there were any grounds to ask 
Creation to take the sofa back.
Ms G didn’t accept this and asked for an Ombudsman’s review. At this point Ms G also said 
she had financial problems.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it although Ms G got the sofa in January 2016 for health reasons she says 
she didn’t use it until February 2017. She then complained that the sofa was too low and she 
sank into it. And she stopped making payments.
It’s unfortunate if the sofa isn’t suitable for Ms G. But she had it for over a year when she 
asked to return it. Even if she didn’t use it I think it would be reasonable for her to have at 
least tried it as soon as she got it.
I’ve seen the report on the sofa which says there are no manufacturing problems it. I’ve also 
seen pictures of the sofa which don’t show any obvious problems. From what I’ve seen it 
seems to me that the sofa doesn’t suit Ms G needs. But as there’s nothing wrong with it and 
she has had it for a considerable period of time I don’t think it would be reasonable to ask 
Creation to cancel her agreement, take back the sofa and refund her payments.
Ms G has told us she has financial problems. I’ve seen a record of a conversation Ms G had 
with Creation in June 2017. In this she refers to health problems and to a change in her 
financial circumstances. But from the note it seems Ms G is insistent that the issue is she 
doesn’t like the sofa and doesn’t want to pay for it any more rather than she can’t afford the 
repayments.  I understand Ms G has now come to an agreement with Creation about her 
repayments and that Creation has also addressed Ms G’s concerns about her credit file.
Ref: DRN2710335
2
I hope Ms G is happy with the arrangement she has come to. If she isn’t she might want to 
consider raising this as a separate complaint. I say this because Ms G didn’t raise financial 
problems when she first complained to us so Creation hasn’t had a proper opportunity to 
respond to us on that matter. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2017.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2710335
