K820x#14
complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd left it too long when contacting him 
about arrears and it has applied interest and charges. He doesn’t believe he has been 
treated fairly as the non-payments were due to a bank error.
background
Mr L took out finance with Creation when buying some household items in March 2015. The 
loan agreement set out that Mr L wouldn’t be charged interest if the cost of the items and a 
warranty that was sold alongside them, was repaid before the special offer payment date of 
4 December 2015.
Creation sent Mr L a reminder letter on 4 November 2015 about the special date if he didn’t 
want to incur interest. Mr L didn’t clear the loan by that date and so interest was applied. A 
first monthly payment was taken by direct debit in January 2016. Creation then received 
notification from Mr L’s bank that the direct debit had been cancelled.
From February 2016 Creation attempted to call Mr L about the missed payments and wrote 
to him about his account going into arrears but it didn’t receive a response. The account was 
passed to an agency to seek repayments and Mr L made payments from November 2016.
Mr L complained to Creation as the payments had been missed due to a bank error. He also 
complained as he doesn’t think Creation told him about the arrears soon enough, or believe 
the letters were sent at all as he had redirection in place, but didn’t get anything. Creation 
didn’t uphold his complaint as it didn’t think it had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint either. She concluded that Creation had tried to 
contact Mr L about his arrears but he hadn’t updated his address when he moved. And she 
found the redirection he had in place wasn’t started until March 2017, some time after the 
account fell into arrears. Because she didn’t find Creation had done anything wrong she 
didn’t think it needed to amend any adverse information recorded on the credit file. She did 
however, pass on an offer from Creation to refund £30 of charges as a gesture.
Mr L remains unhappy that it took so long for Creation to notify him of the arrears and his 
credit file has been affected.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’m not upholding this 
complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr L’s direct debit to Creation was cancelled in error by his bank. 
But it nevertheless remained his responsibility to ensure that payments were made to 
Creation when they were due.
Having looked at the information provided I’m satisfied Creation did attempt to contact Mr L 
on many occasions about his payments and the arrears on the account. This was by both 
phone and in writing. I understand these letters were sent to Mr L’s old address. But that was 
because Mr L never updated his address with Creation. And although he has provided 
evidence of having redirection in place, that didn’t start until March 2017, well over a year 
Ref: DRN2144853
2
after Mr L fell into arrears. As such any arrears correspondence wouldn’t have been caught 
by the redirection. I don’t think I could fairly find Creation at fault for Mr L not receiving 
correspondence when he didn’t update his address.
I’m aware Mr L has incurred interest and charges. But they have been applied in accordance 
with the terms and conditions. And any information reported to credit reference agencies has 
to be an accurate reflection of the account history. Mr L has fallen into arrears and so it 
wouldn’t be wrong for this to be reflected on his credit file.
I do understand the impact this will have, particularly as information stays on a credit file for 
six years. But I’m satisfied Creation met its obligations in attempting to contact Mr L about 
his account. As I don’t think Creation has done anything wrong, I won’t be asking it refund 
any of the interest and charges or amend his credit file.
Creation offered to refund a £30 charge as a gesture of goodwill. I simply leave it to Mr L to 
decide if he now wants to accept that and if he does he should get in contact with Creation 
direct.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2018.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2144853
