K820x#14
complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited, (“CCFL”) declined his credit 
application, and wouldn’t tell him the exact reasons for this.
background
Mr A applied for a fixed sum loan agreement from CCFL and was unhappy that it declined 
his application, especially as he had previous credit agreements with it. He asked for the 
exact reasons as to why his application had been declined. CCFL told him that the main 
reason was because Mr A didn’t meet its internal lending criteria and sent him a booklet to 
provide him with information on its credit decision process. But, Mr A felt that it was his right 
to know the exact reason for the declined application.
The adjudicator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
CCFL had said that Mr A didn’t meet its internal lending criteria, so it had decided not to lend 
on this occasion. She said that it was up to CCFL who they lend to, and that this service 
couldn’t ask them to justify or explain their lending decisions.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint as he felt that it was 
his right to know the exact reason for the declined application.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels that he is entitled to know the exact reason for the declined 
credit application. But, the Information Commissioner’s Office (“ICO”) says that if a consumer 
thinks that they’ve been refused credit unfairly, the consumer can ask the lender to explain 
the main reason why and can also ask the lender to review their decision. And, if the reason 
for the decline is also due to information in a credit reference agency (“CRA”) search which 
CCFL said may be the case, the lender must give the consumer the name of the CRA so 
that the consumer can check if the information is correct.
I note that CCFL’s final response letter to Mr A didn’t specifically tell him of his right to ask 
for a review of its decision and it didn’t tell him which CRA it used so that he could obtain his 
credit file to check.  
I asked the adjudicator to ask CCFL for details of its internal lending criteria and how it 
applied these to Mr A’s application. I also asked which CRA it used.
CCFL responded to say that it couldn’t provide its internal lending criteria, but it told us the 
name of the CRA it used, which I have asked the adjudicator to provide to Mr A.
Whilst I can see that CCFL has provided the main reason for its decision, I’ve seen no 
evidence that CCFL told Mr A the name of the CRA it used and that he could ask for a 
review of its decision. As I can see that Mr A has suffered trouble and inconvenience as a 
result, I think that CCFL should pay Mr A £50 compensation.
Ref: DRN2342553
2
I asked the adjudicator to ask CCFL for its comments on the above, but it hasn’t provided us 
with a response. So, I’m happy that in the circumstances of this complaint, it would be 
appropriate for CCFL to pay Mr A £50 compensation.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to pay Mr A £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2016.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342553
