K821x#14
complaint
Mrs I has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has not refunded money she 
paid for an alarm system. The company providing maintenance and monitoring for the alarm 
stopped trading in 2011.
Mrs I is represented by a claims company.
background
In February 2009 Mrs I took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation for an alarm 
system. The total package included monitoring and maintenance of the alarm. In 2011, the 
provider stopped trading. Mrs I was making monthly payments of £34.58.
In 2014 Mrs I was contacted by a claims company who told her that she may have a claim 
against the finance provider. On her behalf, they submitted a claim to Creation that Mrs I had 
not got the full service from the alarm company.
Creation did not believe the contract included a cost for the alarm monitoring and 
maintenance. They turned down Mrs I’s claim. Her claims company therefore brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator told Creation that she considered that the total amount payable included the 
servicing and monitoring of the alarm system. Therefore under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, Creation is liable for the breach of the contract by the supplier. She asked 
them to refund Mrs I money that she’d paid since March 2011, when the supplier ceased 
trading. They should add 8% interest to that amount along with £100 compensation. This 
was for Mrs I’s inconvenience in the delays before getting the case resolved.
Creation never responded to our adjudicator. This case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that, under a specific set of 
circumstances, a consumer may claim a refund of money paid to a supplier by a credit 
provider. However there can only be a valid claim under section 75 if there is sufficient 
evidence to show that the supplier:

said something about the goods or service being sold that wasn’t true; and

this is what made the customer enter into the contract; or

had broken the terms of the contract.
That means that I can only hold Creation responsible for what the supplier did if the 
company misled Mrs I and this is why she entered into the contract. Or if I believe that the 
supplier didn’t meet the terms of the contract.
Ref: DRN2913192
2
There is no dispute that the original supplier of the alarm system ceased trading in March 
2011: just two years after Mrs I took out the loan. There is no way that they were able to 
provide her with monitoring and maintenance. I can hold Creation liable for this loss of 
service if I believe the monitoring and maintenance was part of Mrs I’s contract.
Creation provided the service with a copy of the loan agreement which showed that Mrs I 
took out a loan for £1,900 for an “alarm system and installation only”. They feel that she is 
receiving three years maintenance and monitoring as a free add-on and therefore they have 
no liability under section 75. I do not agree.
Mrs I’s marketing material shows she’s being provided with “24 hour monitoring day in, day 
out”. In addition she has an “ultimate unconditional guarantee”. And in case this wasn’t 
sufficient, her agreement with the supplier states that she’s paying a total package price of 
£2,000.
It’s worth noting that the two copies of the loan agreement in this case differ. For example 
the copy of the loan agreement provided by Mrs I’s claims company does not include the 
word “only” whilst that is definitely in the copy that Creation gave us. I obviously can’t say for 
sure what happened. But in any case, it has no bearing on my decision.
Mrs I’s agreement with the supplier makes reference under additional comments to 3 years 
“free monitoring & maintenance”.
I am in no doubt that getting monitoring over that period was conditional on Mrs I paying 
£2,000 as the total price. I believe that the monitoring and maintenance is a central part of 
what Mrs I was buying. I can certainly see that this is what attracted her to buying the 
package in the first place.
Overall I am satisfied that a breach of contract took place when the supplier was unable to 
provide the maintenance and monitoring service. And I can hold Creation liable under 
section 75.
I broadly agree with our adjudicator and what she considered was fair redress. Creation 
should refund Mrs I money that she’s paid them since March 2011, and cancel the credit 
agreement. 8% interest should be added to the money she gets back.
I am concerned that Creation never responded to our adjudicator. This case has not been 
resolved as early as it could have been. I believe that this has caused Mrs I inconvenience. 
I consider it fair and reasonable that Creation pay her £250 for this.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mrs I’s complaint. I instruct 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to take the following actions in full and final settlement:

Cancel Mrs I’s fixed-sum loan agreement with immediate effect, ensuring that any 
future liability is waived;

Refund Mrs I all monthly payments she has made under this agreement since March 
2011;

Add interest of 8% simple on those monthly amounts from the date of the debits from 
Mrs I’s account to the settlement date;
Ref: DRN2913192
3

Ensure that no adverse information relating to this agreement remains on her credit 
record; and

Pay her £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2015.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2913192
