K821x#12
complaint
Mrs S complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her in 2008 by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. The policy was sold with a fixed-sum loan. 
It provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Mrs S says the policy was mis-
sold.
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mrs S aware of the cost of the policy; in particular the interest charged on it. 
Creation disagreed. It said the documents it gave to Mrs S would have made her aware that 
interest was charged on the policy. It said she could have questioned anything she was 
unsure of. And it also said Mrs S could have recouped the cost of the policy if she had 
successfully claimed benefit under it for 12 months. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:
•
whether Creation gave advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mrs S’s needs; 
•
whether Creation gave Mrs S information which was clear, fair and not misleading so she 
could make an informed choice about the policy she was buying; and
•
if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mrs S is worse off as a 
result (in other words would she have done something different – such as not buy the 
policy – but for any shortcomings?).
did Creation recommend the policy to Mrs S?
Creation says this was a non-advised sale. It has provided some paperwork to support that; 
including a key facts document containing a policy summary and statement of price. 
These documents suggest Creation didn’t give Mrs S any specific recommendation. 
Mrs S says it was an advised sale. However, her description of the sale suggests a tailored 
recommendation wasn’t given. Instead she’s said she was presented with an agreement 
which already included the PPI and wasn’t made aware she didn’t have to take it out. Mrs S 
also tells us she wasn’t asked any questions, or given any explanation about the policy. 
Ref: DRN2223377
2
I’m aware that Mrs S has ticked and signed separately on the credit agreement to say she 
wanted the PPI, which suggests she had a choice about whether to buy it. But her 
description of the sale also gives me some concern that she may only have signed for the 
PPI because she didn’t realise she didn’t have to. However, I don’t need to reach any finding 
on that particular point, due to the failings I have identified – and will explain – below. 
Overall I don’t think Creation advised Mrs S to buy the policy. So it didn’t have to take steps 
to ensure it was suitable for her. But it did have to give Mrs S enough information to allow 
her to make an informed choice about the policy she was buying. 
did Creation give Mrs S enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
I find that Creation failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mrs S, in particular the 
interest charged on it. And I also find that, if she’d been aware of that information, she 
wouldn’t have bought the policy. 
I say this because:

Mrs S was in a shop buying a laptop costing £550. Her focus was likely to be on picking 
the right item for her needs; not on buying insurance to cover any finance she was taking 
out. And I accept Mrs S’s explanation that nothing was explained to her about the policy.
 

This was a single premium PPI policy – where the initial premium cost (£224.39) was 
significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan (£213.81). 
The interest on the premium was almost as much as the premium itself. I think this was 
an unusual aspect of this policy and something Mrs S is unlikely to have expected. 

The credit agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t 
reasonable to expect Mrs S to calculate this figure herself from the information in the 
credit agreement.

I can’t be sure the policy summary – which featured the statement of price (and separate 
interest cost) – was given to Mrs S at the point of sale. Even if it was, the information it 
contained wasn’t in a prominent location, or where Mrs S would reasonably expect to 
find it. 

None of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy, which might have better 
helped Mrs S understand the cost of it relative to what she was spending on the goods. 
As a matter of good industry practice this is information I might reasonably expect to see 
in relation to this type of policy. 

I have no reason to doubt that Mrs S would have considered the interest being charged 
on the PPI to be important information. Especially as she was borrowing a modest 
amount where her monthly payments, with the PPI, were less than £36. And also in the 
context that the total cost of the PPI was well over half the base cost of the goods she 
was buying. 

The ‘buy now pay later’ nature of the agreement also meant the whole balance (with the 
PPI premium) was accruing interest at 32.4% for the whole of the deferred period. This 
meant Mrs S would pay a substantial additional amount in interest on the single premium 
PPI in the first year; when the only benefit gained was ‘free’ life cover. I’m not satisfied 
Ref: DRN2223377
3
the information in the credit agreement was enough to make Mrs S properly aware of 
this; which compounds the cost disclosure failings set out above.
Creation says the onus was on Mrs S to review the information given and ask for further 
information if she didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to provide Mrs S with enough information about the main features and benefits 
of the policy to enable her to make an informed choice. 
I’ve considered Creation’s point that Mrs S could have recouped the cost of the policy if she 
had made a claim for 12 months or more. But in the context of the sale as a whole – and 
even allowing for the fact that Mrs S might have had only modest existing provision 
elsewhere – I think Mrs S would be unlikely to have seen the policy as offering any real 
value to her.
For the reasons given above I find that Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it 
sold this policy to Mrs S, as it didn’t make her properly aware of the cost of the policy. I find 
that she wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing.
fair redress
I find that, if Mrs S hadn’t bought the PPI, she would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
So she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the PPI hadn’t been 
sold. The loan and the PPI had a term of 60 months (including the deferred period) so 
should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs S because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
Calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs S had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
•
Subtracting those amounts from what Mrs S actually paid and paying her the 
difference. 
•
Paying Mrs S interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate 
of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B.
Write to Mrs S to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs S needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mrs S should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
Ref: DRN2223377
4
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs S compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2223377
