K821x#15
complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
background
Miss W was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as ‘M’, that supplied and installed solar 
panels. Following a meeting at her home, Miss W agreed to enter into a contract with M for it 
to supply and install a solar panel system costing £8,995. To fund this, Miss W also agreed 
to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Miss W made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. Miss W said that M had told her 
that the panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more 
than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and savings she’d make from using the 
electricity generated by the solar panels rather than buying it from her energy provider. But 
that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
Miss W was also unhappy as one of her solar panels had been damaged and she believed 
the insurer of her warranty and M had entered into liquidation.
In its final response letter, Creation said that, based on the information it had, it didn’t think 
the benefits of the solar panels had been misrepresented. It also confirmed that both the 
insurer and M were still trading. Unhappy with this response, Miss W asked our service to 
consider her complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought that M had misrepresented 
the benefits of the solar panel system to Miss W. To put things right she asked Creation to 
calculate the potential savings and income to Miss W over the term of the loan. She said 
Creation should then restructure the loan so that Miss W pays no more than that over the 10 
year term of the loan. As this may have meant that Miss W’s contractual monthly payments 
would’ve originally been lower, the investigator thought Miss W should be given the following 
four options as to how she would like any overpayments to be used:
1.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
Miss W continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan 
finishing early,
2.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
Miss W pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.
the overpayments are returned to Miss W and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments are returned to Miss W and she pays a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
Regarding the damaged panel she said, based on the information she had, that it appeared 
the panel had been damaged accidentally. And the warranty Miss W had didn’t cover 
accidental damage. So, she didn’t think Creation needed to take any action to address this.
She also recommended that Creation pay Miss W £100 to reflect the trouble and upset this 
matter had caused her.
Ref: DRN2650129
2
Miss W accepted the investigators view on her complaint. Creation didn’t. In summary it 
said:

It thought that paperwork provided by M was clear that the solar panel system 
wouldn’t be self-funding and that it had explained that any benefits could ‘go towards’ 
paying for the system.

The illustration document provided to Miss W showed the potential returns to her 
over a 20 year period and made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-
funding.

There were call scripts that would’ve been used with Miss W which made it clear that 
the benefits from the solar panel system could be used to contribute towards her loan 
repayments rather than cover her full monthly loan repayments.

Too much weight had been placed on Miss W’s testimony compared to the 
documentary evidence that had been provided.
It also provided the training material that it says would’ve been used with all M’s 
salespeople. It said this makes it clear the benefits are over a 20 year period and not the 
term of the loan and therefore the loan wouldn’t be self-funding.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached the case has been passed to me for review.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 (‘s56’) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.”
As Miss W paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, Creation agrees that s75 applies 
to this transaction. This means that Miss W could claim against Creation – the creditor – for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by M in the same way she could have claimed 
against M, the supplier. So, I’ve taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Miss W and M, 
as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by M as an agent of Creation.
Ref: DRN2650129
3
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities – 
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Miss W says she was contacted by M and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
solar panel system would be entirely self-financing. I haven’t seen anything to show that 
Miss W had previously shown an interest in solar panels before she was called by M. It is 
hard to see why Miss W would agree to the installation of the solar panel system, paid for by 
a loan, which would increase her monthly outgoings. And based on this, I think it’s unlikely 
that she would’ve agreed to the solar panel system and a loan with Creation, unless she had 
been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost to 
her. Therefore, I accept Miss W’s version of events.
I’ve considered the call script Creation has said M would’ve used when it first contacted Miss 
W. This includes the following line:
“The generated income plus the money saved on your bills goes towards paying back for the 
installation.”
Creation has said that the phrase ‘goes towards’ would’ve made it clear to Miss W that the 
solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. I’ve thought carefully on this point. Whilst the 
phrase ‘goes towards’ doesn’t explicitly say the system would be self-funding, neither, in my 
opinion, does it make it clear the extent, if any, that Miss W would have to contribute towards 
her loan repayments.
However, this phrase was used in the initial cold call to Miss W where she agreed to a sales 
meeting at her home with M. Miss W’s complaint is that the salesperson for M told her during 
the sales meeting that the panels would be self-funding, rather than the initial call from M. So 
even if I were persuaded that the initial call indicated that the panels wouldn’t be self-
funding, I don’t think it would be unreasonable for Miss W to pay more attention to what she 
was told by the salesperson during the sales meeting held later, rather than what Creation 
say she was told in the initial, and judging by the length of the script, brief call.
I’ve then gone on to consider the paperwork that was provided to Miss W to see if there was 
anything contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-
funding. This includes the illustration document, the loan agreement and a customer 
satisfaction document.
Firstly, I’ll consider the loan agreement. This sets out the amount being borrowed, the 
interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments. This has been signed by Miss W. I’m satisfied that this is clear and 
there is no reference to the solar panel system being self-funded. However, as noted by our 
investigator it doesn’t make any reference to any potential savings and income from the 
solar panels so I don’t think it would’ve allowed Miss W to compare the cost of the solar 
panel system to any benefit she may have received.
The customer satisfaction document is also signed by Miss W. This sets out the estimated 
performance of her solar panel system and what she could expect to receive in the first year 
through any savings and income from the solar panels. Again, there isn’t any reference to 
the solar panels being self-funding, but I have taken into account that this wasn’t provided to 
Ref: DRN2650129
4
Miss W during the sales meeting. It was provided to her two weeks after the sales meeting 
and after the panels had been installed.
I’ve also noted that in the customer satisfaction note there is some wording that says:
“The performance of your solar PV systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to the 
variability in the amount of solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and from year to 
year. Any estimate given is for guidance only. It should not be considered a guarantee of 
performance. Any figures quoted are for illustrative purpose only and actual savings will vary 
according to level of energy use.”
There is also similar wording on the illustration that Creation says was given to Miss W by M. 
So, I’ve considered whether this should have been enough to alert Miss W to the possibility 
of her loan payments not being met by the benefits from the solar panels and therefore the 
system not being self-funding.
I consider the wording quoted above to be a standard wording given to all consumers, 
whether they’ve taken finance or not, that explains the performance of solar panels isn’t 
predictable and that the electricity generated could vary. Having said that, I don’t think it 
would be reasonable to assume this meant that Miss W could’ve understood from this 
statement that the system wouldn’t be self-funding as she had been led to believe.
I’ll now turn to the illustration that M says was provided to Miss W when she agreed to the 
installation of the solar panel system. Miss W’s surname and postcode are at the top of this 
document. It shows the cost of the system to be £8,995 but crucially, in my opinion, doesn’t 
include the cost of the finance. Therefore, the £8,995 isn’t the true cost of the system to Miss 
W. The total cost to her, including interest was £14,162. In my view a significant difference.
The illustration also contains a table that sets out the estimated performance of the solar 
panel system and any benefits by way of income and savings to Miss W over 20 years. 
Creation says that this made it clear to Miss W that the benefits she would receive would be 
over 20 years, not the 10 year term of the loan, and that it wouldn’t be self-funding.
There is a column titled ‘Benefit to you’. This is split in to a further two columns called ‘The 
annual benefit to you’ and ‘Totals’. The annual benefit column appears to show the annual 
benefit that Miss W should expect to receive from the system i.e. £825.12 in year one, 
£862.91 in year two etc. The totals column is only prepopulated with any figures at year 10, 
year 15 and year 20. This does indicate that Miss W would receive benefits over 20 years, 
and clearly, she would as she’d receive electricity savings and FIT payments throughout the 
life of the solar system. However, this table doesn’t compare her benefits with her loan 
repayments, which is needed for her to be able to understand that the system wouldn’t be 
self-funding.
Year 10 shows an overall benefit of £10,356.42. And when compared to the cost of the 
system provided on the illustration of £8,995, I’m persuaded that this supports Miss W’s 
testimony, which I find plausible and credible, that she was told that the solar panels would 
be self-funding over the term of the loan.
Creation has also provided a copy of the call script that it says would’ve been used when 
Miss W was approved for the finance during the sales meeting. It says the following line 
made it clear that the solar panels weren’t self-funding:
Ref: DRN2650129
5
“You understand that the monies earned from the feed-in-tariff can be contributed towards 
the cost of the system should you so wish. However, this is up to you and remains separate 
from your loan repayments.”
Again, I’m not satisfied that this would’ve made it clear to Miss W that her solar panels 
wouldn’t be self-funding. Importantly his makes no mention of the predicted electricity 
savings as it only deals with the FIT payments. I’m of the opinion that this would have made 
Miss W aware that it is her choice of whether to use the FIT payments to contribute towards 
her monthly loan repayments rather than it automatically happening. It doesn’t make it clear, 
and neither does any of the paperwork, of the significant difference between her monthly 
benefits and monthly loan repayments. 
The final script Creation has provided is what it says M would’ve used prior to the installation 
of the panels. This says:
“Do you understand the information given to you regarding the feeding tariff payment and 
potential savings?”
I’m of the view that this question is there to solely check whether Miss W understood what 
she had been told. And she has said she was told that the FIT and any potential savings 
would at least cover her monthly loan repayments. So, rather than clarifying any 
misunderstanding Miss W may have had, it merely asks her to confirm she understood what 
she was told i.e. that the panels would be self-funding.  
I’m satisfied that it is more likely than not that M told Miss W that the solar panel system 
would be self-funding and would come at no additional cost to her. So, I’ve considered 
whether it was reasonable for her to have relied on that misrepresentation when entering 
into the contract given the documents that were given to her. I’ve also considered whether 
any of the documents given to her were sufficiently clear to counter the misrepresentation 
made by the salesperson.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the documents provided to Miss W 
weren’t clear and were presented in such a way that it would’ve been difficult for her to make 
an informed decision without relying on what she was told by the salesperson. So, I’m 
persuaded it is reasonable for Miss W to have relied on what she was told by the 
salesperson when she agreed to enter into the contract.
I’ve reviewed all the training material provided by M to its salespeople. For the reasons set 
out above, it doesn’t alter my view that, in the particular circumstances of this case, I’m 
satisfied the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to Miss W.
Was the solar panel system self-funding at no extra cost to Miss W?
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Miss 
W, the monthly savings and benefits she would achieve should have been sufficient to meet 
her monthly loan repayments.
The customer satisfaction note shows that the expected benefits to Miss W from the first 
year would be around £870, around £72 a month, and slightly higher than what she was 
shown on her illustration. This is due to a slight increase in the expected solar panel 
performance. 
Ref: DRN2650129
6
But her monthly loan repayments were significantly higher than this and Miss W was likely to 
have been out of pocket by about £45 a month and that would broadly be the same 
throughout the term of the loan. This means that even based on this estimate, the solar 
panels aren’t self-funding. So, I’m satisfied that M misrepresented the benefits to Miss W. 
For the reasons I’ve explained above, I find that Miss W has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by M. And as Creation has equal liability for the misrepresentation 
made by M, I find that it is responsible for Miss W’s loss.
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Miss W’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that she was led to believe that they would be self-funding. And based on this I don’t think it 
would be fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from her home. 
Rather, I think the fair outcome here is to put Miss W in a position where the panels are self-
funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Miss W to keep the panels, I’m 
satisfied that she will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward 
(i.e. after the term of the loan has finished.)
By making the solar panels self-funding, it is likely that Miss W’s monthly repayments will 
reduce, meaning that she would’ve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as Miss W would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest a year from the date the overpayment was 
made until the date of the settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would 
be to allow Miss W to choose from the below options as to how she would like her 
overpayments to be used:
1.
any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of Miss W’s loan and she continues to pay her current monthly payment 
resulting in her loan term finishing early,
2.
any overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of Miss W’s loan and she pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end 
of the loan term,
3.
any overpayments and associated interest are returned to Miss W and she continues 
to make her current monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or;
4.
any overpayments and associated interest are returned to Miss W and she pays a 
new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
If Miss W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information at the time that Miss W complained to 
Creation that means her claim should’ve been upheld. The fact that this didn’t happen 
undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset and consequently I’ll make an award of £100 for 
this.
Ref: DRN2650129
7
Other issues
Miss W has raised concerns about damage to one of her panels and that the insurer has 
since gone into liquidation.
I’ve reviewed the warranty that Miss W has in place for her solar panel system. This says 
any accidental damage to her solar panels isn’t covered under the warranty. The evidence 
that I have been provided with shows that it is more likely than not that the damage was 
caused accidentally and therefore isn’t covered under Miss W’s warranty. Therefore, I will 
not be making an award for this.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Miss W’s complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
(a) allow Miss W to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and income to Miss W from the panels over the 10 
year term of the loan and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Miss W’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of the settlement,
(d) allow Miss W to decide how she’d like her overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e) pay Miss W £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its’s taken off. It 
should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2650129
