K821x#12
complaint
Mrs L complains that the sofa she bought with a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) is faulty. She also complains that she was charged for a warranty which she was 
told ‘came with the sofa’.
background
Mrs L entered into a four-year fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation in March 2009. In 
September 2012, Mrs L complained to Creation that the sofa was faulty because the frame 
had become wider than the cushions, so that the cushions did not fit. The sofa also dipped in 
the middle.
Creation issued its final response in October 2012. It rejected Mrs L’s complaint because 
she had not demonstrated that the fault was inherent at the time of delivery.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision issued in December 2013, I explained why I was minded to 
uphold Mrs L’s complaint in part. I invited both parties to let me have their further comments 
and evidence. Mrs L accepted my provisional decision. Creation did not because-
1.
the supplier’s call log indicates Mrs L did not contact the supplier to complain about 
the defect until March 2012, all prior contact being about alleged mis-sale of the 
warranty; and
2.
the cost of repair is too high in comparison to the cost of the sofa. The supplier 
considers it should only cost £70 to repair.
my decision
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, including the additional information and 
representations from Creation. Having done so, my decision remains the same. 
I have set out my findings again below, addressing Creation’s new evidence where 
appropriate.
Mrs L says she first complained to the supplier about the defect in her sofa in 2010, before 
her family was posted overseas, not in 2012 as has been suggested. Mrs L says she cannot 
provide further evidence, as all communications with the supplier were verbal. Mrs L says 
she later referred her complaint to Creation because the supplier would not assist and 
because she had been advised that Creation was equally liable under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Creation has now provided a spread-sheet on which the supplier has summarised its 
communications with Mrs L. According to the spread-sheet, all contact prior to 26 March 
2012 related to a complaint about mis-selling of the warranty. The first entry relating to repair 
was on the above date. 
Whilst this is correct, I do not consider the spread-sheet to be proof that earlier 
communications about a defect did not take place. Indeed, it seems relatively clear from the 
Ref: DRN2222271
2
entry for 26 March 2012 that an earlier request for repair was probably made by Mrs L, 
which had been refused by the supplier. 
In any event, whilst it is not possible to be exact about the date Mrs L first complained about 
the sofa, I do not think this is material to the outcome given the findings of the business’ own 
appointed expert, which I set out below.
Following Mrs L’s return to the UK, the supplier arranged for an inspection of the sofa. This 
was carried out in September 2013. The report describes the problem as follows:
“Right hand facing in side arm fibre board lining come away”
The inspector has since explained to this service that the staples running along the rail of the 
fibre lining board have missed the rail in parts, with the result that the board could more 
easily come away from the rail. In his opinion this is a manufacturing fault and could only 
have happened when the sofa was assembled. He also thought that the defect was 
repairable.
The supplier has argued that the sofa was reasonably expected to last between three and 
four years and it is no longer economical to repair it. Mrs L was offered £70 to pay for her 
own repairs, as a gesture of goodwill. However, the inspector estimates that it will cost more 
to repair the sofa. With labour and travel expenses, he says it will cost £210 to carry out the 
repair.
In spite of the fact that it has taken over four years for the sofa to be inspected, I am 
prepared to accept the evidence of the supplier’s appointed inspector. His opinion that the 
defect could only have happened during manufacture is unqualified. Therefore, the sofa was 
not of satisfactory quality at the time of the contract. This is a breach of the contract of sale 
between the supplier and Mrs L for which Creation is equally responsible under section 75 of 
the 1974 Act. This is the case even if the defect only became apparent later. 
In addition, according to the credit agreement, the cash price of the sofa was £695 not £393, 
as claimed by Creation in its response to my provisional decision. I do not think the 
argument previously made by the supplier that the sofa was not expected to last more than 
three or four years to be a reasonable one in the circumstances. In any event, the sofa failed 
earlier than the supplier’s estimate, even if one accepts the information recorded on the 
spread-sheet, which I do not, as it does not appear to be a complete record.
I understand that the sofa was a showroom model, but there is no indication on the sales 
document of any defects. In any event, the fault is not attributable to its ex-display status, but 
a manufacturing fault. Also, Mrs L says she paid full price for the sofa.
Mrs L’s credit agreement has now ended. However, Mrs L says she would still like the sofa 
to be repaired. I think this is fair and reasonable, as it ought to have been repaired at the 
time she first told the supplier about the defect. In the circumstances, I award her £210 to 
cover the cost of repair. Whilst the Creation says this is too much, it is the price given by its 
own appointed inspector. Creation has not provided any independent evidence to justify its 
£70 estimate. Therefore, my decision remains the same.
I have also considered Mrs L’s complaint about the warranty mis-sale. But, I do not feel able 
to uphold this aspect of her complaint. I can see from the spread-sheet that Mrs L had 
complained about this to the supplier. However, owing to the passage of time, it will be 
Ref: DRN2222271
3
impossible to substantiate what Mrs L says. Mrs L signed the sales document on which the 
product is itemised, I cannot now be satisfied that it is more likely than not that she was 
misled about what was included under the credit agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs L’s complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited in part and make an award of £210 to cover the cost of the 
repairs to the sofa.
Athena Pavlou
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2222271
