K822x
complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited refused to accept his £1 per month 
payment proposal and keep asking for proof of his income and bank statements. He also 
complains that Creation harassed him by making frequent telephone calls.
background 
Mr G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in July 2013. In October 2013, 
he became unemployed. In July 2014, he contacted Creation complaining about the 
frequency and inappropriate times of the telephone calls he was receiving. He said these 
were causing him considerable stress and asked for his telephone number to be removed 
from its systems. He says that he had to chase Creation a number of times and that he did 
not receive a response until 30 October 2014 (dated 16 October 2014).
Creation says that it has removed Mr G’s telephone number from its system. It says that Mr 
G did not make any payments on his account between October 2013 and April 2014 and that 
calls were made to Mr G between March and July 2014. It says that only a few of these were 
answered and it did not feel these calls constituted harassment. Creation says that a 
payment plan was agreed for six months, due to expire in March 2015, and that in February 
2015, it would require Mr G to provide proof of his income to ensure he was paying the right 
amount. It also cancelled £200 of charges on Mr G’s account.
The adjudicator found Creation’s acceptance of Mr G’s £1 per month payment plan for six months 
and the cancellation of £200 of charges fair and reasonable. She said that Creation had acted 
positively and sympathetically by accepting reduced payments. The adjudicator did not find it 
unreasonable that Creation had requested a review of Mr G’s financial situation before continuing 
with the payment plan.
Mr G agreed with part of the view but did not agree that it was fair and reasonable for 
Creation to insist on him providing proof of his income at the end of the six month payment 
plan. He said this was not a legal requirement and he had a right to refuse to do this. He also 
said that Creation had not acted positively and sympathetically towards him until he had 
contacted this service. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is in financial difficulties. In these circumstances I expect Creation to treat Mr G 
positively and sympathetically. That does not mean that it has to accept a reduced payment 
plan but I would expect it to consider this. Mr G wanted a £1 per month payment plan to be 
set up on a short term basis. I find that Creation has acted positively towards Mr G by 
agreeing to this proposal for six months.
Creation has said Mr G should provide a proof of his income in February 2015, so that it can 
check he is paying the right amount. I understand that Mr G does not want to provide this 
information and his comments that he is not legally obliged to do so but that he wants the 
payment plan to continue. I understand Mr G does not expect his financial situation to 
change and that, even though he has asked not to be contacted by telephone, he would be 
happy to be called every six months by a nominated person to discuss his payment plan. 
Ref: DRN2078077
2
While I appreciate Mr G does not want to provide proof of his income, I do not find it 
unreasonable that Creation has requested this. It is not a legal requirement for Creation to 
accept reduced payments when requested. Asking for an income and expenditure statement 
is not usual when dealing with people in financial difficulties and I find it reasonable that 
Creation wants evidence of Mr G’s financial situation before continuing with a payment plan.
Creation was slow to respond to Mr G’s letter dated July 2014. And I find it did not provide 
him with the service it should have done when he tried to follow up on his complaint. But, 
because Creation has cancelled £200 of charges that were due on Mr G’s account arising 
because of missed payments, I find that it does not need to do anything more to settle this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2015.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078077
