K822x
complaint
This complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is about a single premium Payment 
Protection Insurance (‘PPI’) policy sold in connection with a loan to purchase electrical 
goods in 2007.
Mrs E complains she was unaware she had taken out PPI until she started to make 
payments towards the loan following the deferred payment period and had concerns over 
the monthly cost. She has said there had been no mention of the PPI policy when she 
arranged the loan and she could only recall arranging a different type of insurance at that 
time. 
background 
In my provisional decision I was persuaded to uphold Mrs E’s complaint that she was 
unaware of the PPI policy. This was because: 

The credit agreement where Mrs E signed to take out PPI said “other insurances/ 
warranties”. So I found it plausible that Mrs E had understood she was signing for the 
other insurance she was taking out. 

Mrs E told us when she received her first statement she queried the amount she was 
paying with the business and said it was her intention to approach the Citizens 
Advice Bureau (CAB) for help. The business’ internal notes recorded Mrs E’s 
intention to seek help from the CAB because she was unhappy with the agreement. 
So while on their own the actions Mrs E appears to have taken are by no means 
conclusive or particularly persuasive, given there appears to have been some record 
of her unhappiness with the agreement following her first statement, they might 
suggest it was always her understanding that she did not have PPI on her account. 
And this was something I took into account when viewing the available evidence in 
the round.
Mrs E’s representatives responded to my provisional findings and explained they had no 
further points to make. 
The business also replied to my provisional findings and confirmed it had nothing further to 
add to its file and would await receipt of my final decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules, the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold. 
And it seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out in the section of our website explaining how we deal with PPI complaints.
Having reconsidered Mrs E’s complaint, and as neither party made any further 
representations for me to consider in response to my provisional findings, I see no reason to 
alter my provisional conclusions. That is, for the reasons that I set out above, on balance 
I find Mrs E’s submissions plausible as I find it more likely than not that she agreed to take 
out an insurance for the goods, but that she was unaware she had taken out the PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN2956613
2
It follows that I uphold Mrs E’s complaint and make an award against Creation as I am 
persuaded Mrs E has been disadvantaged.
fair compensation
It seems to me that had Mrs E not taken out the PPI policy she would have still taken out the 
loan. Therefore, she should be put back in the position she would have been in had the 
PPI not been taken out. 
Creation should: 
(A)
calculate, and pay Mrs E the amount of the net payments she made in respect of the 
PPI (including any interest and charges) by comparing:

the payments actually made; 
­
the payments which would have applied if Mrs E had taken the loan without PPI; 
and
­
add interest on each of these net payments at the rate of 8% per year simple† 
from the date of each payment to the date the compensation is paid; and
(B)
set out in writing for Mrs E the details of the calculations under (A).
† – This part of the compensation may be subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of 
the compensation in Mrs E’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate 
tax from the compensation and Mrs E’s financial circumstances. More information about the 
tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and 
Creation and Mrs E should contact HM Revenue and Customs if they want to know more 
about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision 
My final decision is that Mrs E’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay Mrs E fair compensation as I have set out above. 
I make no further award against Creation.
Kristina Mathews 
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2956613
