K821x#15
complaint
Mrs R says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) when she took out a loan over the phone in 2008. The cost of the policy was added to 
the loan and repaid over the loan term, with interest.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had told Mrs R she had a 
choice about buying the policy – or clearly told her what it would cost. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement gave Mrs R the chance to say no to the 
policy – and she had time to cancel it if she didn’t want it. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs R’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint.  
Creation sold the policy to Mrs R over the phone – and when doing that it had to make clear 
to her that she didn’t have to buy the policy if she didn’t want it. There’s no call recording to 
listen to – but Creation has given us a script it says it was using at the time. 
The script (if it was followed) did direct the adviser to describe the cover as ‘optional’ near 
the start of the call. But this brief reference was followed immediately by a lot of information 
about who underwrote the insurance and what it did and didn’t cover. So Mrs R could easily 
have missed it.
The script also directed the adviser to give the monthly loan payments with and without the 
PPI. But it didn’t ask Mrs R for her clear and explicit consent to add the PPI to her loan. It 
only asked whether Creation could ‘go ahead and send (her) out documentation including 
the insurance cover to complete and return”.
I think that, in the context of the whole call, Mrs R would have taken this question to be 
asking her whether she wanted the loan paperwork sent to her to sign. I’m not satisfied she 
would’ve known – from how the question was worded, or from a brief mention of cancellation 
rights – that she had a choice, and was being asked to make a choice, about buying the PPI.
As Creation has pointed out, Mrs R did tick and sign for the PPI on the loan agreement it 
sent her after the phone call. But that didn’t describe the PPI as optional – and by then it 
looked like an integral part of the loan. The agreement didn’t say what would happen if 
Mrs R didn’t tick and sign. 
The very last sentence at the bottom of the statement of price did say it ‘wasn’t a 
requirement’ of the loan to buy the policy. But this wasn’t in a prominent location. Again 
Mrs R could easily have overlooked this – assuming she saw the statement of price. 
Ref: DRN2946804
2
So, overall, I’m not satisfied that Creation made Mrs R clearly aware that she had a choice 
about buying the policy.
I also don’t think Creation did enough to make Mrs R aware of what the policy cost. Although 
it’s likely she was told the monthly payment with and without PPI over the phone, she’d have 
had to work out for herself what the monthly cost of the policy was. She was also probably 
told the total cost of the PPI over the phone, but not how much extra she was borrowing up-
front to pay for it. 
The loan agreement did show the initial cost (the single premium) as well as the total cost. 
But it didn’t show the interest Mrs R was being charged. That information was in the 
statement of price, which was on page two of the policy summary. So it wasn’t easy to find, 
or where Mrs R would expect it to be. 
Most of the information about what the policy cost was also sent to Mrs R only after she’d 
effectively agreed to buy it over the phone – even if she didn’t realise she was agreeing at 
the time. So it didn’t help her make an informed choice.  
I don’t think Mrs R would have bought the policy if Creation had made clear to her that she 
had a choice, or if it had properly told her what the policy cost.   
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs R’s complaint.
what Creation should do to put things right
Mrs R’s loan was supposed to run for three years – but, from the information Creation has 
given us, it looks like she paid it off early, in 2009. 
I can also see that Mrs R had a separate complaint with this service about another loan she 
took out with Creation (also with PPI) in 2009 – a few days before she paid off her 2008 
loan.
So I think it’s possible that Mrs R used some of the loan she took out with Creation in 2009 
to pay off the 2008 loan and PPI which is the subject of this decision. 
Creation should check this carefully when calculating compensation for the 2008 loan and 
PPI. (I understand that Creation has already paid Mrs R compensation for the sale of the 
2009 loan and PPI.)
Because Mrs R borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, her 2008 loan was bigger than it 
should’ve been. And, if she did use the 2009 loan to pay off the 2008 loan, then her 2009 
loan was also bigger than it should’ve been – because it cost her more to repay the first 
loan. And she’ll have paid more she should have on both loans. 
Mrs R now needs to get back the extra she’s paid
So Creation should:

work out and pay Mrs R the difference between what she paid each month on the 2008 
loan and what she would’ve paid without PPI;  
Ref: DRN2946804
3
then either; 

(if she didn’t use part of her 2009 loan to pay off the 2008 loan) work out and pay Mrs R 
the difference between what it cost to pay off the 2008 loan and what it would’ve cost to 
pay off the loan without PPI; or

(if she did use part of her 2009 loan to pay off her 2008 loan) work out how much of the 
balance that was carried forward to the 2009 loan related to the cost of the PPI policy 
taken out with the 2008 loan; and

work out and pay Mrs R the difference between what she paid each month on the 
2009 loan and what she would’ve paid without that carried forward balance, 
including interest and charges 
and then;

add simple interest to each extra amount Mrs R paid from when she paid it until she gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the 2008 PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs R the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2016.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2946804
