K822x
complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has wrongly applied interest to his 
account.
background 
In April 2017, Mr H was due to pay his credit card. His understanding was that his minimum 
payment would be taken by direct debit, while he would be able to pay the remaining 
balance on the first or second day of the month – in line with when previous payments were 
needed.
Mr H’s statement for April explained that his payment due date was 1 May. His direct debit 
was taken and he paid off the receiving balance on 2 May 2017 – with this crediting his 
account on 5 May. When Mr H’s statement for May arrived, he realised he’d been charged a 
significant amount of interest because Creation said he’d paid off the balance late.
He complained to Creation, saying he usually made payments on the first or second day of 
the month, so couldn’t understand why interest had been applied here. Creation looked into 
his complaint and said the terms and conditions of Mr H’s account clearly explain when 
payments are needed, along with when interest will be applicable if the balance isn’t fully 
repaid.
Mr H wasn’t happy with this and felt that Creation took too long to respond to his concerns. 
So he brought his complaint to us, where one of our investigators looked into it. Having done 
so, she felt that Creation had applied the interest fairly, where the terms of Mr H’s account 
and the statements it sent him made clear when payments were needed.
But she did feel that Creation took too long to respond to his complaint. She asked Creation 
to pay £50 for the impact this would have had on Mr H and it agreed.
Mr H didn’t agree though. He felt that Creation kept changing the dates that payments were 
due and was acting inconsistently with other credit card providers. So the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won’t be telling 
Creation that it needs to refund Mr H the interest it charged here.
The terms and conditions of Mr H’s account explain that interest will be applied if the 
outstanding balance isn’t cleared in full each month, by the date shown on the relevant 
statement. These terms go on to explain how this interest will then be calculated. I’ve seen 
the statement Mr H would have been sent in April 2017. This explained that his payment was 
due by 1 May 2017. It also confirmed the amount that would be taken by direct debit for the 
minimum payment too – which was substantially less than the balance on the account. 
Ref: DRN2141856
2
At the bottom of Mr H’s statements, Creation explains that the minimum payment will be 
taken automatically by direct debit. The statements go on to explain that if Mr H makes a 
payment online or over the phone, then he needs to allow three working days for the 
payment to reach Creation. If he makes a payment from another bank, then he would need 
to allow five working days for the payment to be made.
So I think it’s quite clear that Mr H needed to make sure his payment was made by 1 May. 
I’m satisfied the relevant timescales that applied to the payments were also made clear to 
him. His direct debit was in place to make the minimum payment. But he would always have 
needed to make sure he also repaid the remaining balance on the account by this date, if he 
wanted to avoid paying the interest this would have attracted.
Mr H has said that Creation keeps changing the date of his payments. Having looked at his 
account history, the payment date does fluctuate, often between the first to the third day of 
the month. That’s not an unusual practice for a credit card provider. But in the individual 
circumstances here – I’m satisfied that Creation’s statements make it clear when Mr H 
needed to have made a payment by.
So it’s difficult for me to say that Creation has acted unfairly here. It’s accepted and 
processed Mr H’s payments when he’s made them and applied interest correctly to his 
account, in line with the terms and conditions.
Like our investigator, I think it’s clear that Creation took too long to respond to Mr H. It’s now 
offered him £50 to compensate him for the distress this caused. I think that’s a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances which it’s for Mr H to now decide whether he accepts. 
But I can’t ask Creation to do any more than this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mr H £50 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2018.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2141856
