K821x#15
complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In July 2014 Mr M was contacted by a company called I-Power Systems Ltd (“I-Power”) 
offering a solar panel system that wouldn’t cost him anything.  
A sales representative visited Mr M’s home and he entered into an agreement to purchase 
the solar panels for £9,490.  I-Power arranged for the system to be paid for using a fixed-
term loan with Creation over a 10-year term.
Mr M was told that the financial benefits generated by the system would cover the cost of 
servicing the loan payments – effectively making it self-funding.  Those benefits were to be 
in the form of energy bill savings and Feed-in Tariff (“FiT”) payments from selling excess 
energy back to the grid.
The system was installed in September 2014 and Mr M soon realised that the panels weren’t 
generating the benefits he was expecting, and they weren’t covering the cost of the loan.  Mr 
M settled the loan early by refinancing with another lender (having paid Creation a total of 
£11,657.40 with interest).
Under s.75 a finance provider is liable to the same extent as the supplier of goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation.  So, Mr M made a claim to 
Creation.
Creation made a calculation, based upon the recommendations of an industry expert, which 
took account of the system’s actual performance and estimations of future performance – 
and said that it would generate £6,993.44 over the 10-year loan term. Based on that 
calculation, Creation made an offer to compensate Mr M for the overpayments he’d made 
with interest.
The solicitors representing Mr M responded rejected the offer and explaining why it didn’t 
fully compensate the losses resulting from re-financing.
One of our investigators reviewed Creation’s offer and agreed with how it calculated the 
benefits the solar panels would generate over 10 years.  But she also recommended that 
Creation revise its offer to include compensation for the proportion of the loan Mr M 
refinanced (and interest upon that).
Creation provided a revised offer of compensation to take account of the refinancing. The 
investigator forwarded the offer to Mr M’s solicitors, but no response was received.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider 
afresh.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN2871584
2
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, there must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship.  I’m satisfied that relationship exists here, and as Creation has 
accepted responsibility, I won’t expand further.
Creation has accepted that the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to Mr 
M – and offered compensation to reflect that. So, the issue for me to decide is whether the 
offer made by Creation is appropriate, or if there’s an alternative way of putting things right 
which I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When deciding what I consider to be the fairest way to compensate Mr M, my aim is to 
ensure that he doesn’t pay more for the system than the financial benefits it provides over 
the original 10-year loan term. Deciding compensation in such cases is not an exact science 
and there are assumptions about the expected future benefits from the system.  I’m also 
aware that Mr M refinanced the original loan to mitigate his position and am satisfied that 
should be taken into account.
I’ve reviewed the offers Creation has made to Mr M.  Initially it made an offer based upon the 
recommendations of an industry expert to estimate the likely future benefits that the system 
would produce – and compared them with the actual cost of the system.  The approach that 
it took is in line with what this Service would usually recommend in complaints such as this – 
and I’m satisfied that’s appropriate. 
However, the specific circumstances in this complaint are slightly different due to the fact Mr 
M chose to refinance the loan with another provider and repay Creation early. So, Mr M has 
continued to incur the cost of maintaining that debt with the new provider and I’m satisfied 
it’s fair for that to be taken into account.  The investigator dealing with the complaint pointed 
that out to Creation and recommend it revise its offer to reflect those costs.
Creation did revise its offer to include compensation to reflect the additional costs associated 
with the new loan.  That offer and breakdown of compensation was provided to Mr M’s 
representative in March 2021.  It also included interest of 8% for Mr M’s loss of access to the 
money where appropriate and £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused as a result of 
not resolving the claim earlier.
Having taken everything into account, I’m satisfied the latest offer made by Creation is a fair 
and reasonable way of compensating Mr M.  It takes account of the circumstances set out 
above and broadly ensures Mr M won’t have paid more for the solar panels than the benefits 
they’ve produced – and he’ll continue to receive an ongoing benefit from the system in the 
longer-term.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.  
To put things right I’m satisfied the basis for Creation’s latest offer to Mr M is a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the complaint – and so I leave it for Mr M to decide whether he 
wishes to accept that offer or not.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
Ref: DRN2871584
3
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2871584
