K822x
complaint
Mrs M purchased some solar panels which were to be paid for by a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. Mrs M says she withdrew from the finance 
agreement but she is unhappy that she is still being asked to pay Creation £5,500.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 5 January 2015; a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I felt Mrs M’s complaint should be 
upheld and what should happen to resolve the complaint. I invited further comments from the 
parties before I reconsider the complaint and issue my final decision.
Creation responded to my provisional decision and stated, in summary, no negative 
information has been recorded with the credit reference agencies as payments have not yet 
become due. It believes Mrs M was offered the opportunity to withdraw from the agreement 
and pay the cash price of the goods, either to Creation or the retailer.
Creation accepts it should not have insisted Mrs M pay it the cash amount prior to the 
finance agreement being activated. As the agreement has however been activated it asks 
that Mrs M be required to pay the required sum to it, rather than the retailer. It will waive the 
£75 administration fee it believes is due and will allow payment to be made up to 
11 March 2015. It believes this is reasonable as the retailer is likely to request immediate 
payment. It agrees to pay the distress and inconvenience award and will either deduct this 
from what is due, or pay this directly to Mrs M.
Mrs M also responded to my provisional decision and said that she is happy with the 
decision and has nothing further to add. She has however referred to my proposed award for 
distress and inconvenience and believes this does not even begin to address the amount of 
work involved with the complaint.
my findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have upheld this 
complaint for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
Creation claims that it did offer Mrs M the opportunity to withdraw and pay either itself, or the 
supplier. From the information that has been submitted in this complaint I have not however 
seen anything to demonstrate Mrs M was given the opportunity to pay the supplier or 
retailer. This is precisely the point that Mrs M has complained about and had she been given 
the opportunity to pay the supplier, rather than Creation, I doubt she would have need to 
continue her complaint with Creation or ultimately our service. The information provided 
indicates that Mrs M was merely told that she had to pay Creation, which as I have explained 
is not correct.
Creation has stated that the credit agreement being activated has an impact on the 
withdrawal and that this affects whether or not Mrs M would be required to make a payment 
to Creation. Section 57 of the Consumer Credit Act refers to withdrawal from a prospective 
credit agreement and I accept the circumstances change when a credit agreement has been 
activated. However, Creation still appears to misunderstand what the Consumer Credit Act 
Ref: DRN2638844
2
states as section 66a (withdrawal from an [active] credit agreement) only says Mrs M must 
repay ‘any credit provided’.
At the time of withdrawal, no credit had been provided and it was paid a considerable time 
after the request to withdraw. I can only assume that the payment was subsequently made 
through error or Creation’s lack of understanding around the regulations. Considering 
Creation’s submissions in this complaint, including those in response to my provisional 
decision, I consider it likely to be the latter.
Creation has, again, asked that Mrs M make the payment to itself instead of the retailer but 
as I have already explained I do not think this would be reasonable. Creation’s offer to waive 
the £75 administration fee is somewhat surprising, considering it should not have been 
added if it had acted correctly from the beginning and allowed Mrs M to withdraw from the 
agreement. Mrs M accepts, as she has done throughout, that she is required to pay the 
retailer and that is something she will take up with the retailer separately and outside of this 
complaint. Similarly, Creation is likely to seek repayment from the retailer but this again is of 
no concern to Mrs M.
I have noted Mrs M’s comments about the level of distress and inconvenience payment and 
having considered the circumstances of the complaint again I feel my proposed award was 
insufficient. Although Mrs M may still be unhappy with my final award I do, on reflection, feel 
that £250 is a more appropriate award in the circumstances here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

cancel the finance agreement and write off anything that is due under the agreement;

ensure no adverse information is recorded with the credit reference agencies and the 
loan is treated as withdrawn; and,

pay Mrs M £250 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2015.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2638844
3
copy - provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M purchased some solar panels which were to be paid for by a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. Mrs M says she withdrew from the finance agreement but she is 
unhappy that she is still being asked to pay Creation £5,500.
background
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to all parties and I see no benefit in detailing 
everything again here in detail. However, in summary, Mrs M is being asked to pay Creation the cash 
price of the solar panels and she believes she should not have to do this as she has withdrawn from 
the loan agreement. She says she accepts that if she withdraws from the finance agreement she will 
still be required to pay the supplier, but says she should not have to pay Creation.
In her submissions Mrs M has also referred to problems with the installation of the solar panels, what 
she believes to be forged documents and the loan agreement being set up on the wrong date.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service, where it was considered by one of our adjudicators. The 
adjudicator considered what Mrs M and Creation had said but did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs M did not accept the adjudicator’s conclusions and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been passed to me for consideration.
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and subject to further submissions from the 
parties, I am minded to uphold Mrs M’s complaint.
Mrs M has made extensive submissions on a number of issues relating to the conduct of Creation and 
the supplier. However, I am not required to respond to every point one of the parties has made or to 
answer every question raised. That is not because I have not taken into account what Mrs M has said, 
but because my role is to focus on what I consider material to the outcome of the complaint.
the date of the loan agreement
Mrs M says that she, and her husband, first met with the supplier on 26 February 2014 to discuss the 
possibility of purchasing the solar panels. On the evening of 10 March 2014 Mrs M says she again 
spoke with the supplier and he explained that if she did decide to purchase the solar panels using a 
loan it would be quicker if he conducted a credit check before their next meeting. Mrs M says she was 
happy to provide her personal details so the check could be carried but says she had not actually 
decided at that point if she would take out a loan. She says she did not agree to the finance at that 
point and it was only at a later meeting on 17 March 2014 that she decided to take out the loan.
Creation initially told Mrs M that the loan was set up on 11 March 2014 but it is clear that Mrs M did 
not actually sign the loan agreement until 17 March 2014. I find Mrs M’s submissions to be plausible 
and think it is unlikely that she would have agreed to take out a loan on 11 March 2014 before she 
had actually seen the terms of the loan agreement. The loan agreement was clearly signed on 17 
March 2014 and this is when it was presented to Mrs M to consider. Despite what Creation’s systems 
say about the start date of the loan I am satisfied that the start date should be 17 March 2014. The 
start date of the loan agreement is relevant as it affects a consumer’s ability to withdraw from the loan 
agreement, which is what I have referred to below.
It is not entirely clear why the loan was set up with a start date of 11 March 2014 but I should remind 
Creation that Section 56 of the CCA makes Creation responsible for the actions of the company who 
Ref: DRN2638844
4
is arranging credit on its behalf. There are clear rules and guidelines about how finance agreements 
should be sold or arranged and Creation should ensure its agents are aware of and follow these 
requirements.
the satisfaction note
As part of the loan process Creation has a ‘customer satisfaction note’ that is to be completed after 
the solar panels are installed. As its title suggests, it is a form to indicate that the customer is happy 
with the installation of the solar panels. In this instance the satisfaction note was completed for Mrs M 
on 26 March 2014. However, Mrs M says that she did not sign the form and says that she was at work 
that day and did not meet with the supplier. She also refers to the signature on the form being 
different to her actual signature and that on 26 March 2014 the significant damage to her property, by 
the installers, had not been repaired.
Having considered the signature on the satisfaction note it is clearly, in my view, different to Mrs M’s 
signature on the loan agreement, the supplier’s order form and our complaint form. I also think it is 
unlikely that Mrs M would have said she was ‘satisfied’ with the work that had been done when 
significant damage had been done to her property by the supplier. On balance, I think it more likely 
than not that Mrs M did not sign the satisfaction note. I also however think it is unlikely that Creation 
completed the form, which means that it is more likely than not that the supplier completed the form. 
While Creation should take reasonable steps to check the satisfaction note when it is presented, it is 
not however responsible or liable for the form being completed by anyone other than Mrs M.
I note that Mrs M has made a complaint about the actions of the supplier with other bodies and if she 
wishes this issue should be something that she pursues with those bodies.
withdrawal
Section 66a of the CCA refers to ‘withdrawal from consumer credit agreement’. The intention of this is 
to allow consumers a short period in which to withdraw from a loan agreement if they change their 
mind or decide not to proceed with the loan agreement. It relates solely to the withdrawal of the loan 
agreement and does not apply to any agreement or order relating to the purchase of the goods or 
services.
In summary, the CCA states a consumer has 14 days from when the loan started to provide the 
finance company with a notice of his/her intentions to withdraw from the loan. It is for this reason that 
the start date of the loan is important and in this instance the start date of the loan was 17 March 
2014. Mrs M called and then emailed Creation on 29 March 2014 to say that she wished to withdraw 
from the loan agreement. She had already spoken to Creation by this point to explain how unhappy 
she was with the supplier and installation, and to ask Creation to delay paying the supplier. Although 
not directly related to the withdrawal, Creation was however on notice that Mrs M was unhappy with 
the supplier and that there were problems with the installation.
Mrs M provided Creation with the required notice of withdrawal on 29 March 2014 and that should 
have been sufficient for Creation to allow Mrs M to withdraw from the loan agreement. I am satisfied 
that Mrs M withdrew from the loan agreement on 29 March 2014 and although the loan had already 
been set up, it should then have ended and treated as if it ‘had never been entered into’ (section 66A 
(7)(a) of the CCA).
Mrs M has referred to section 70 of the CCA and this refers to ‘cancellation: recovery of money paid 
by debtor or hirer’. This specifically refers to cancelling a finance agreement rather than ‘withdrawal’ 
and although I have noted Mrs M’s comments, section 70 does not apply in the circumstances here 
as it doesn’t apply if a consumer has already withdrawn from a credit agreement.
Although the solar panels had been installed by the time Mrs M had withdrawn from the loan 
agreement, this should not however impact on whether Creation should have treated Mrs M’s loan 
agreement as being withdrawn. As referred to above, any withdrawal would not relate to the goods or 
Ref: DRN2638844
5
services and Mrs M would still be required to pay for the solar panels that had already been installed. 
Payment of the goods would therefore be something Mrs M would need to take up with the supplier of 
the goods but this should not be something that Creation would need to concern itself with.
If at the point of withdrawal the loan proceeds had already been paid to the supplier the consumer is 
required to pay the finance company this amount. Section 66A (9) of the CCA specifically refers to 
this and that ‘the debtor must repay to the creditor any credit provided and the interest accrued on it...’
Creation has however said that the supplier was paid on 22 April 2014 and on 29 March 2014, when 
Mrs M withdrew from the loan agreement, the supplier had not therefore been paid. No credit had 
actually been provided to Mrs M at the time she withdrew from the loan agreement. I have noted what 
Mrs M has said about the supplier being paid before this date but on balance I think it is more likely 
than not that the supplier was paid on, or about, 22 April 2014.
As Mrs M had withdrawn from the loan agreement I am unsure why Creation decided to pay the 
supplier 27 days later. Creation had received clear instructions from Mrs M about not wanting to 
proceed with the loan and Creation should not have therefore paid the loan proceeds to the supplier. 
Mrs M is required to repay Creation any money that it has paid the supplier but only up to the point 
that she withdraws from the loan agreement. Creation incorrectly, in my view, paid the supplier a 
significant period after Mrs M withdrew from the loan. Having very carefully considered the 
circumstances here I think it is unreasonable to now expect Mrs M to have to repay Creation the 
money that it incorrectly paid the supplier.
Mrs M will still have a liability to the supplier, which she accepts, but this is an issue she will need to 
take up with the supplier. Should Creation wish to recover the money it has incorrectly paid to the 
supplier it should take this up with the supplier directly and should not concern Mrs M.
Creation should now cancel the finance agreement without further delay and ensure it is correctly 
recorded as being ‘withdrawn’ and therefore never actually being in place. Mrs M should not be 
pursued for payment as she is not required to pay Creation the money that it paid the supplier, so any 
balance on the loan should be written off with nothing further owed by Mrs M. Creation should also 
ensure Mrs M’s credit file is updated accordingly and any adverse information be removed from all 
credit references agencies.
the installation
Mrs M has referred to problems with the installation of the solar panels, damage to her property that 
was caused by the installers and also the condition her property was in after the installation. Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) states that under certain circumstances a consumer could bring 
an equal claim against the finance provider where goods or services are deemed to have been of 
unsatisfactory quality. This means that Creation may have been liable for any breach of contract, by 
the supplier, through the unsatisfactory installation of the solar panels. However, as Mrs M has 
withdrawn from the loan agreement it is treated as if it ‘had never been entered into’ (section 66A 
(7)(a) of the CCA).
This means that any complaint about the installation of the solar panels, the electrical certificates, or 
the condition of Mrs M’s property during or after installation is not a complaint that Creation is liable 
for. This also therefore means that this is not a complaint that I am able to consider here and I will not 
therefore be commenting on these points in this decision.
Finally, I consider that Creation incorrectly paying the supplier and then seeking payment from Mrs M 
would have caused her some degree of worry, upset and inconvenience. Creation is not responsible 
for any inconvenience caused by the installation and Mrs M will need to pursue this separately with 
the supplier if she wishes.
Considering the circumstances here I think that Creation should make a payment of £150 to Mrs M for 
the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Ref: DRN2638844
6
my provisional decision
Subject to any further evidence or representations received from Mrs M or Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd, I propose to uphold Mrs M’s complaint. I am minded to direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:

cancel the finance agreement and write off anything that is due under the agreement;

ensure no adverse information is recorded with the credit reference agencies and the loan is 
treated as withdrawn; and,

pay Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
I now invite the parties to provide any further submissions by 5 February 2015, after which time I will 
reconsider this complaint.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2638844
