K821x#15
complaint
Mr D says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a loan over the phone in 2005. The cost of the policy was added to the 
loan and repaid over the loan term, with interest.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didn’t think Creation had told Mr D he had a choice 
about buying the policy – or clearly told him what it would cost. And the adjudicator also 
didn’t think Creation had made Mr D aware that it would be harder for him to make an 
unemployment claim, because he was self-employed.
Creation disagreed. It said its telephone sales script and loan agreement would have made 
Mr D aware he had a choice – and the paperwork it sent to him afterwards told him the cost. 
It also said the sickness cover the policy offered might have been useful to Mr D.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr D’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint, although not for all the reasons the adjudicator did. 
Creation had to make clear to Mr D that he didn’t have to buy the policy if he didn’t want it. 
I’m concerned that the script Creation sent to us doesn’t give any indication that it would’ve 
told Mr D the policy was optional, or asked him for his clear and explicit consent to add it to 
his loan. There is some mention of quotes ‘with and without’ PPI – but the script doesn’t say 
what form those quotes took, or how they were delivered to Mr D. So the script doesn’t make 
me think that Creation did everything it should’ve done.
However; Mr D’s own recollections of the sale do suggest he knew he could choose whether 
or not to buy the policy. He says he was told it would protect his payments if he couldn’t work 
and he decided to go along with Creation’s ‘advice’. So, even though the script isn’t very 
good, I think Mr D did know that he didn’t have to buy the policy if he didn’t want to. 
I don’t think Creation did advise Mr D – in the sense that it didn’t make a personal 
recommendation to him to buy the policy. So it didn’t have to make sure the policy was right 
for him. But it did have to make sure it gave Mr D enough information so he could decide 
that for himself. I don’t think Creation did that here. 
The policy terms made it harder for Mr D, as a self-employed person, to make an 
unemployment claim. This is because they required him to have taken advice from a legal or 
financial professional about the future of his business before ceasing to trade. So it would be 
harder for Mr D to get help from the policy than it would be for an employed person – 
because he’d have to do more to make his claim than a regular employee would.
Ref: DRN2765574
2
The script doesn’t suggest that Creation drew this to Mr D’s attention during the phone call. 
Mr D says it didn’t. And it wasn’t set out in the policy summary either. Mr D would’ve had to 
read quite a long way through the full policy wording to find this term. So I don’t think 
Creation did enough to draw this restriction to Mr D’s attention and I don’t think he was able 
to make an informed choice. 
I also don’t think Creation did enough to make Mr D aware of what the policy cost. The script 
doesn’t suggest the costs were explained in much detail at all. The loan agreement Creation 
sent Mr D after the phone call (which is no longer available) would probably have shown him 
the initial and total cost of the policy. But it wouldn’t have shown him the interest he was 
being charged on it – which in this case was over £500. 
The statement of price did show the interest – but it was on page two of the policy summary. 
It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr D would expect it to be. And all of this information about 
what the policy cost was sent to Mr D after he’d effectively agreed to buy it over the phone – 
so it didn’t help him make an informed choice.  
I’ve thought about the fact that Mr D could still have benefitted from the sickness (and life) 
cover the policy offered. But, weighing that against the difficulty he’d have had in claiming 
the unemployment benefit – and that he wasn’t clearly told how much the policy was costing 
him – I don’t think he’d have bought the policy if Creation had done everything it should have 
done during the sale.  
For these reasons, I uphold Mr D’s complaint.
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand that the loan and PPI have now ended. But Mr D borrowed extra to pay for the 
PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he paid more than he should have 
each month. Mr D now needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr D the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr D paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN2765574
3
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr D the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2016.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2765574
