K820x#10
complaint
Mr G complains that a used car he bought with the help of a loan from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (“Creation”) was not of satisfactory quality at the time it was sold to him. He 
brings this complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr G bought the car in April 2011 when it was nearly five years old and had a recorded 
mileage of 34,840 miles. It had an MOT certificate issued one month previously by the 
selling dealer. When he took delivery of the car, Mr G complained about:
1.
vibration when braking;
2.
a grinding noise when going over speed bumps;
3.
a punctured tyre; and
4.
an insecure offside repeater light.
The dealer rectified these faults, although Mr G has said that faults 2 and 4 have reoccurred.
When Mr G submitted the car for an MOT test in April 2012, with a recorded mileage of 
41,404 miles, it failed on the following grounds:

offside repeater light insecure;

excessive play on nearside and offside track rod ball end joints;

nearside outer front constant velocity joint gaiter insecure; and

parking brake efficiency below requirements.
Mr G considers that as the car had only covered some 6,000 miles since he bought it, these 
faults cannot simply be attributed to wear and tear, as the dealer suggested, but must have 
been present when he bought it. So the car was not of satisfactory quality when he bought it.
Creation invited Mr G to produce a report from an independent mechanical engineer to back 
up his claim that the April 2012 defects were present at the time of sale, rather than resulting 
from normal wear and tear, but he has not done so. In the absence of such a report, 
Creation was not willing to accept that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when sold.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She considered 
that the faults listed in the April 2012 MOT test report were either different from those 
repaired by the dealer in 2011, or were in respect of wearable parts. She could not conclude 
that these faults had been present at the time of sale so that the car was then of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr G responded to say, in summary, that given the small additional mileage since he bought 
the car, he did not consider the faults revealed in the April 2012 MOT test were the result of 
wear and tear in that period. Given the faults which he had found when he took delivery of 
the car, and which had apparently not shown up in the dealer’s March 2011 MOT inspection, 
he was suspicious that the dealer’s MOT test was not correctly carried out, and if it had 
been, the faults which were listed one year later would have been revealed in March 2011 
and rectified before sale.
Ref: DRN2237014
2
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand the reasons for Mr G’s suspicions, I consider that the faults revealed by 
the April 2012 MOT test were, with the possible exception of the insecure repeater light, all 
in respect of wearable parts of the car. In the absence of any evidence from an independent 
motor engineer that the degree of wear meant that the parts were faulty, and should have 
been replaced, at the time of sale, I am unable to conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when sold to Mr G. I do not consider that the insecure repeater light on its own would 
have meant that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2237014
