K822x
Complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
In February 2013, I-Power Systems Ltd (‘I-Power), a company that supplied and installed 
solar panel systems, cold called Mr L. Following a meeting at his home with a salesperson, 
Mr L agreed to enter into a contract with I-Power for it to supply and install a solar panel 
system costing about £9,400. To fund this he also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum 
loan agreement with Creation. The solar panels were installed soon after.
In April 2016, Mr L made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA to Creation via his 
representative. The representative said that I-Power had told Mr L that the solar panels 
would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than offset by 
the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, Mr L’s monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher than the FIT income.
Creation wrote back to Mr L’s representative in May 2016. It explained that it didn’t think the 
solar panel system had been mis-sold.
Mr L, via his representative, referred his complaint to our service. Following our involvement 
Creation made an offer to Mr L. It had worked out what it considered to be an estimate of the 
potential savings and income to Mr L from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan. It 
had then reworked the loan so that he would pay no more than that over the 10 year term.
One of our investigators thought that the offer put forward by Creation was fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L didn’t accept the offer. His representatives raised several reasons as to why the offer 
wasn’t acceptable. In summary, it said:

Mr L had been told that the system would pay for itself over five years, not the term of 
the loan.

He no longer had the peace of mind of the warranty/guarantee provided by I-Power as it 
had since gone into administration.

He would never receive the benefits that he’d been led to believe he would when the 
solar panels were sold to him.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’d like to thank Mr L for his patience whilst this service has been looking into his complaint.
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
Ref: DRN2538157
2
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (‘s56’) and s75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.”
As Mr L paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan agreement, Creation agrees that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr L could claim against Creation – the creditor – 
for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by I-Power in the same way he could have 
claimed against I-Power, the supplier. So I’ve taken s75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the particular circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr L and I-Power 
as the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by I-Power as an agent of Creation.
Mr L says that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the installation would 
be entirely self-financing. I haven’t seen anything that suggests Mr L had shown a previous 
interest in solar panels prior to being approached by I-Power. It is difficult to see why he 
would have agreed to the installation of the solar panels financed through a loan that would 
increase his monthly outgoings. I therefore think it is unlikely that Mr L would’ve agreed to 
install the solar panels, and take out a loan with Creation, unless he was led to believe that it 
would be self-funding and come at no additional cost to him.
I’ve also considered the action taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (‘RECC’) 
against I-Power. My understanding is that the RECC administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures that is members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated I-Power’s conduct. In June and December 2014 it determined that I-
Power was in breach of a number of sections of the code. These includes sections relating 
to essentially requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers 
and providing clear and accurate information about the costs and benefits of the product 
sold.
I understand that what happened in respect of the cases RECC looked into may not have 
necessarily happened in Mr L’s case. Whilst the RECC Panel’s findings are general and do 
not refer to Mr L’s case, the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the 
areas related to Mr L’s complaint and at around the time he was sold the solar panels and 
the loan.  
Taking the above into account, I believe that it is more likely than not that the salesperson for 
I-Power led Mr L to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding and the FIT and 
savings would be sufficient to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement.
I’ve noted that neither Mr L and his representative nor Creation seem to think that the solar 
panels would be self-funding over the term of the loan.
Ref: DRN2538157
3
My view is that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost to Mr L, 
the savings and income he would receive should have been sufficient to cover the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
To clarify, Mr L’s expected savings and incomes from the solar panels are from:
(a) generation income tariff,
(b) export tariff income, and;
(c) savings to Mr L by using the electricity generated by the panels instead of buying it 
from his energy provider.
Based on the calculation provided by Creation the total expected return from the above three 
items, in the first year, would have come to around £810 whereas the loan repayments were 
about £1,460 a year.
Taking this into account, Mr L was likely to be out of pocket by about £650 in the first year. 
And that would have broadly been the same during the term of the loan. Based on this 
estimate the solar panels weren’t self-funding. So I’m satisfied that I-Power misrepresented 
the benefits to Mr L.
Mr L didn’t have any prior experience of solar panels and was cold called by I-Power. I’m 
satisfied that he decided go ahead with the purchase of the solar panels based on the 
representations made by I-Power that the system would be self-funding.
I find that Mr L has suffered a loss as a result of the misrepresentations made by I-Power. 
The system wasn’t self-funding and Mr L has ended up paying a significant amount over the 
FIT and savings. And as Creation has equal liability for the misrepresentations made by 
I-Power, I find that it is responsible for Mr L’s loss.
Mr L’s representative has said he would like his money back, any remaining finance to be 
written off and for the solar panels to be removed. They have provided a table they say was 
given to Mr L at the time he was sold the solar panel system. This shows that, over the 
25 year life of a solar panel system, a customer could expect to receive an income and 
electricity savings of just over £82,000. And based on this Mr L’s solar panel system 
should’ve paid for itself in five years. 
I’ve thought carefully on this point. The role of this service is to help settle disputes between 
consumers and businesses providing financial services fairly and reasonably and with 
minimum formality. In cases like this one determining fair compensation isn’t an exact 
science.
My view of Mr L’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding, and in this case over five years. 
And based on this I don’t think it would be fair or reasonable to require the removal of the 
solar panels from his home. And it is also accepted that it would cost Creation a significant 
sum to remove them. So I don’t think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. 
I think the fair outcome here is to put Mr L in a position where the panels are self-funding 
over the original term of the loan. This is because I’m not persuaded that the table the 
representative has provided is specific to Mr L or his solar panel system. And, by allowing 
Mr L to keep the panels, he will likely benefit from lower electricity bills or FIT payments 
going forward. 
Ref: DRN2538157
4
Creation has said that its offer is to effectively make the solar panels self-funding in the 
sense that the loan repayments, over the term of the loan, would broadly match Mr L’s 
potential savings and the FIT income from the solar panels.
I’ve also considered whether any savings should be taken into account when arriving at fair 
compensation. Although I’m satisfied that Mr L was misled into thinking that the solar panels 
would be self-funding, it’s difficult for me to know exactly how this was explained to him. The 
RECC’s findings I referred to earlier do suggest that, on occasions, I-Power may have 
misled consumers about the costs and benefits of the system they were sold.
I think that when a consumer decides to go ahead and install a solar panel system, it’s 
reasonable to assume that their key objective is to firstly generate electricity for their own 
use. So I don’t consider it reasonable to ignore this important benefit when arriving at fair 
compensation.
In cases like this I would expect Creation to follow and apply the methodology that it has 
agreed with our service. To confirm, I expect its calculation to be based on the actual 
performance and estimated future performance of Mr L’s solar panel system. 
There will be a number of assumptions used when calculating the estimated future 
performance of Mr L’s solar panels. These include using a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr L’s solar panels that he is expected to use 
rather than buying electricity from his energy provider. Based on the Energy Savings Trust’s 
data I’m satisfied that this is reasonable. This is because it would take into account any 
changing occupancy habits over the lifetime of the solar panels and once the loan has been 
repaid Mr L will continue to likely benefit from the system via his electricity bills and FIT 
payments. 
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these don’t appear unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an 
example, the actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the 
assumed figure.
I’ve also considered any ongoing maintenance costs for Mr L by keeping the solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust website. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800. I acknowledge 
that Mr L could have some maintenance costs over the lifetime of the solar panels. But, on 
the other hand, I also acknowledge that he will likely have some benefit by way of savings 
and FIT income going forward.
It’s impossible to know what the extent of those costs and the benefits would actually be. 
However, based on the available information I think that the potential benefit should be 
adequate to offset any reasonable maintenance costs. 
Mr L is understandably concerned that as I-Power is now in administration, he is left without 
a guarantee or warranty. I’ve noted that in its Final Response Letter Creation has said, in 
regards to this, Mr L would be entitled to an s75 claim against it and therefore any faults or 
issues should be addressed to it and it would assist. I’m satisfied that this is fair.
Ref: DRN2538157
5
Creation has also agreed, as long as Mr L can provide a copy and it can be evidenced that it 
formed part of the original purchase, it will honour the warranty. I accept that this doesn’t 
guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mr L experiences any system issues within 
the original warrantee period, he’d be entitled to raise a claim under the warranty and 
Creation will consider it under the terms of the warranty. 
In summary, to put things right Creation should recalculate the original loan, based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels, over the 10 year 
term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system.
By recalculating the loan this way, Mr L’s monthly repayments would reduce, meaning that 
he would’ve overpaid each month. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment I would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would 
be to let Mr L have the following selection of options as to how he would like his 
overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to him and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I also think Creation should pay Mr L £100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused. This is 
because the RECC’s findings on the breaches I-Power where in the public domain and I’m 
satisfied that Creation should’ve taken this information into account when reviewing Mr L’s 
complaint. I’m of the opinion that this supports Mr L’s claim against Creation and it should’ve 
upheld his complaint sooner than it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr L’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Mr L to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and income to Mr L from the panels over the ten year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr L’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) allow Mr L to decide, using the four options given above, how his overpayments 
should be used; and
(e) pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ref: DRN2538157
6
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN2538157
