K821x#15
complaint
Mr R has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has refused to consider a claim 
he has made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In 2015 Mr R entered into an agreement with a company called RoLec Solar Limited 
(“RoLec”) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The purchase price was 
£9,595 and Mr R paid for using a loan which RoLec arranged with Creation.  The loan was to 
be repaid with interest over a 10-year term, and the monthly payments were £125.78.
At the time of sale, RoLec represented to Mr R that the solar panels would generate 
significant financial benefit through a combination of energy savings and selling excess 
electricity back to the grid.  The sales contract sets out a breakdown of the individual 
benefits and they totalled £841.09.  
Below the benefit amounts, the contract states:
“…if it [the solar panel system] does not produce the above in 12 months from the date of 
installation we will reimburse you the full price”.
The solar panels were installed and operational from September 2015.  Two years later, in 
September 2017, Mr R contacted RoLec as the system wasn’t performing as he had been 
led to expect.  RoLec responded several months later and communication continued about 
ongoing problems with the system until Mr R eventually issued a claim against RoLec in the 
courts.
In late 2019 Mr R obtained a court judgment against RoLec which awarded compensation.  
But unfortunately, RoLec entered administration and didn’t honour the judgment.
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held jointly and severally responsible to the same 
extent as the supplier for any misrepresentation or breach of contract.  So, Mr R made a 
s.75 claim to Creation.
Creation said it didn’t need to look at Mr R’s s.75 claim as the matter had already been 
considered and decided by the courts.  Unhappy with the response, Mr R referred his 
complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators contacted Creation but it failed to provide its file or any comments 
on the substantive merits of the complaint.
Based upon the available evidence the investigator recommended Mr R’s complaint be 
upheld.  In summary, she concluded it was fair for Mr R to bring a claim against Creation as 
it’s independently liable from any claim against RoLec, and because no compensation has 
been paid due to RoLec going into administration.
To put things right, the investigator concluded Creation should arrange for the removal of the 
solar panels and cancel the loan agreement.
Mr R accepted the investigator’s recommendation, but Creation did not.
Ref: DRN2897101
2
Creation said it’s not fair for it to be held responsible when the courts have issued a 
judgment against RoLec and Mr R can pursue compensation from its administrators as a 
creditor.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed for an ombudsman to 
review afresh and make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
I should start by saying that Creation has not provided a full response to the merits of Mr R’s 
complaint despite several requests. So, I’ve based my decision on the information that is 
available, and where something is unclear or missing, I’ve concluded what I consider to be 
most likely on balance.
For a valid s.75 claim to exist, there must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship.  I’m satisfied that exists and Creation has not contested it so I won’t expand 
further here.
I understand why Creation considers that it’s not responsible for Mr R’s claim, and I 
acknowledge Mr R has gained a judgment against RoLec through the courts.  However, I do 
not agree that Creation is not responsible for dealing with Mr R’s s.75 claim.
The principle of res judicata (a matter judged) stops litigants from raising the same claim or 
issues twice – ensuring the finality of judgments.  I’ve thought carefully about this point but 
am not persuaded that is the case here.  RoLec has not honoured the court judgment to pay 
compensation to Mr R, and given that it’s in administration it’s unlikely that the judgment will 
ever be able to be enforced in full – if at all.  
Under s.75 both RoLec and Creation are jointly and severally responsible for Mr R’s claim.  
The reason he made the claim to Creation was because he hasn’t been compensated for his 
losses by RoLec, so I don’t think it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to refuse to address Mr 
R’s concerns.
As I’ve concluded Creation is responsible for dealing with Mr R’s s.75 claim, it’s necessary 
for me to consider the evidence relating to Mr R’s claim.  Despite several opportunities, 
Creation has not addressed the issues, so I have reviewed what is available impartially.   
I’ve seen a number of documents provided by Mr R, including his purchase agreement with 
RoLec and a timeline chronology of the problems he’s had with the solar panel system.  I’ve 
found Mr R’s concerns to be credible and in the absence of representations to the contrary I 
think Creation should put things right.
There are a number of ways that Creation could put things right and I’ve thought about what 
a fair and reasonable way is of doing so.  I’m aware that the court had ordered RoLec to 
refund any payments made for the solar system and clear the remaining loan balance owed 
to Creation.
Ref: DRN2897101
3
It appears Mr R has suffered ongoing disruption for several years as a result of the problems 
he’s had with the solar panel system.  This has resulted in a loss of FIT payments and a 
reduction in the energy savings that were represented to Mr R by RoLec.  I’ve contemplated 
asking Creation to calculate the difference between the represented benefits and what he’s 
likely to receive, but I don’t think that’s appropriate here.
Had Mr R known about the potential problems he’s faced with the system and that it wouldn’t 
generate the financial benefits he was told, I think it’s unlikely he would have proceeded with 
the purchase at all.  So, in this case I think it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to 
unwind the situation by arranging for the solar panels to be uninstalled and cancelling the 
loan.  
Whilst I understand the system hasn’t performed as expected, I do recognise it has likely 
produced some savings for Mr R.  But given the problems he’s faced and the fact that 
Creation hasn’t tried to resolve matters for him, I don’t think any deduction should be made 
for those.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr R’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited.  To put things right it should:
A) Arrange for the removal of the solar panel system from Mr R’s property.
B) Write off the outstanding balance of Mr R’s loan.
C) Refund all payments Mr R has made towards the loan.
D) Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the payments at C above, from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897101
