K821x#15
complaint
Miss H complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold her two payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies with two loans. For each, the cost of the policy was added to the 
loans and was to be repaid over the loan terms.
background
Miss H took out a £6,000 loan from Creation in March 2007. Her PPI premium was just over 
£1,326. She took out the second loan for £8,000 in January 2008. Creation says this was a 
“top up” of the first loan. Her PPI premium was just over £1,768. Both loans were arranged 
with Creation over the phone.
Miss H says she didn’t want or need the PPI on either loan. But she says in both cases 
Creation told her she had to have it. 
The adjudicator who looked at Miss H’s complaint decided to uphold it. Creation disagrees 
and so Miss H’s complaint has come to me to decide.
I should say Miss H had other loans with Creation and has another complaint about one of 
them with us. But this decision is only about the PPI on the two loans I’ve referred to above.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss H’s complaint.
Creation effectively sold both policies to Miss H over the phone. So I think she’d have relied 
more on what Creation told her in the calls than on anything she got in writing afterwards. 
But, from what I’ve seen, Creation didn’t make it clear in either call that Miss H had a choice 
about the policies.
There are no call recordings but Creation has sent us the script it says it would’ve used in 
both calls. It is short. It doesn’t tell the call handler to explain clearly the policy is optional or 
to get Miss H’s consent to it. The script says to give Miss H quotes without and without PPI. 
But it doesn’t say how the quotes were explained or what Miss H was told.
The script does briefly mention cancellation rights. But I don’t think that in itself is enough to 
make it clear to Miss H she had a choice about the policies. 
I can see Miss H ticked and signed to say she wanted PPI on both of her loan agreements. 
But neither of them said the PPI was optional. And by the time she got them, I think Miss H 
is likely to have thought the PPI was part of each of her loans.
The script also didn’t properly disclose the costs of each policy. The loan agreements did set 
out the single premium costs (around £1,326 for the 2007 loan and around £1,768 for the 
2008 loan) and the total cost of each PPI policy. But it didn’t set out the interest on each PPI 
Ref: DRN2796390
2
loan as a separate figure (around £520 for the 2007 loan and around £694 for the 2008 
loan). I don’t think it was reasonable for Miss H to have to work these figures out for herself. 
She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the policies to be in 
her loan agreements.
None of the paperwork I’ve seen showed the monthly cost of the policies either. It would’ve 
been good practice for Creation to give Miss H this information, so she could better 
understand what the policies were costing her.
I don’t think Miss H would’ve bought either policy if Creation had made her properly aware 
she had a choice, or if she’d known how much each policy was going to cost her, compared 
to the amount of her loans and what she was paying for them.
putting things right
Miss H should be put back in the position she would be now if she’d taken out the loans 
without the PPI policies. 
I understand Miss H’s 2007 loan was refinanced by the 2008 loan. I also understand Miss H 
cancelled the PPI policy on the 2008 loan and got her PPI premium of £1768.10 back in 
February 2008. Finally, I understand Miss H repaid the 2008 loan in May 2008.
But Miss H borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loans were bigger than they should’ve 
been and she’s paid more than she should’ve each month. So, Creation should:
(A) In respect of each loan:

Work out and pay Miss H the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI;  

Pay Miss H the amounts by which the payments she actually made exceeded the 
recalculated payments;

Add simple interest to each of these amounts from when Miss H paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year; †

Recalculate the balance that would have been outstanding at the end of each loan had 
the recalculated loan not included PPI.
(B)
Calculate how much of the balance that was carried forward to the 2008 loan related to 
the cost of the PPI policy taken out for the 2007 loan and:

Repay Miss H all amounts paid under the 2008 loan in respect of the carried forward 
balance, including interest and charges;

Add simple interest to each of these amounts from when Miss H paid it until she gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. † 
(C) Set out in writing for Miss H details of the calculations under (A) and (B). 
If Miss H made a successful claim under either PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN2796390
3
my final decision
I uphold Miss H’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right as 
I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2016.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2796390
