K821x#15
complaint
Mrs C complains that a used car she acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
background
In May 2017 Mrs C acquired a used car via a five year fixed sum loan. The car was around 
seven years old and had a mileage of about 71,500.
Mrs C says the day she went to collect the car she noticed that it made an awful noise as 
she turned the wheel. It was arranged for the dealership to inspect the car and an issue with 
a coil spring was found. This fault was repaired under the warranty.
In July 2017 the car broke down and had to be towed back to the dealership. It was found 
that the car required a wiring repair to an injector. This was again fixed under the warranty.
In December 2017 the car developed a problem with the clutch. The master cylinder was 
repaired under the warranty. However, unlike the two previous occasions Mrs C wasn’t 
offered the use of a courtesy car. Mrs C says that because of her job a car was essential 
and she had to arrange to borrow one.
In February 2018 only two days after the car had passed its MOT the engine management 
light came on and Mrs C took the car back to the dealership. It said it would need to 
investigate and find out whether the problem was related to parts that were covered by the 
warranty. Mrs C says the dealership had told her it would charge for its investigation and that 
she would have to hire a car while hers was at the garage. The fault was found to be due to an 
issue with the emissions which was repaired under the warranty and the car returned to Mrs C.
In March 2018 Mrs C contacted Creation and said she wanted to return the car. Creation 
said that due to the time that had passed since the inception of the agreement it was unable 
to accept a return of the car and cancel the agreement. It said Mrs C would need to provide 
proof that faults were either present or developing at the point of sale.
Mrs C complained to this service. Our investigator partially upheld Mrs C’s complaint. She 
said that she didn’t think it was reasonable for Mrs C to now reject the car as she had 
accepted the repairs that were carried out. But she did think that it would be fair for Creation 
to pay Mrs C £100 as compensation due to the inconvenience of having to take the car 
repeatedly back to the dealership and for consequently not being able to use it.
Our investigator said that Creation had by email offered to purchase the car directly from 
Mrs C, although Mrs C said she was unaware of that, and that this offer still stood with the 
dealership. If Mrs C wanted to follow this course of action she would need to contact the 
dealership directly.
Creation disagreed with our investigator’s view. It said that it appreciated Mrs C had been 
inconvenienced by the car having to be repaired. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the 
consumer had a right to repair or replacement and compensation wasn’t a part of the 
remedy under the Act. For the first two repairs Mrs C had been provided with a courtesy car 
as a gesture of goodwill. No courtesy car had been provided for the third repair but it said the 
garage was under no obligation to provide one.
As the parties didn’t agree the complaint was passed to me. 
Ref: DRN2690977
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a car must be of “satisfactory quality” at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the relevant circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldn’t reasonably expect issues to arise 
with the car for a period of time.
Here the car was around seven years and had a mileage of just over 71,000. I think that 
would mean a reasonable person would expect some repair) and maintenance issues to 
arise over time. However, this car had a problem at the point of sale with the coil spring 
and then two months later with the injector and about five months after that with the 
master cylinder. The final issue was with the emissions that arose in February 2018 after 
Mrs C had had the car for about nine months.
I don’t think that a reasonable person would expect that number of repairs to arise over 
that short period of time so I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale. And where this applies then the retailer would have an opportunity to repair. If that 
wasn’t successful then the consumer would be able to reject the car.
However, for each of these faults, Mrs C accepted the repairs undertaken on the car. 
These repairs were of no cost to her. So I agree with the view of our investigator that it 
wouldn’t be fair for Mrs C to now reject the car.
Creation has accepted that these repairs will have caused inconvenience to Mrs C. She had 
to take the car back to the dealership to have the repairs sorted out and although she was 
provided with a courtesy car for most of the repairs there was an occasion when she wasn’t. 
I’ve seen that due to the nature of Mrs C’s work that a car was essential for her.
Creation says that compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused isn’t 
warranted as it isn’t included in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 that sets out the remedies 
when goods aren’t of satisfactory condition. It also says that it wasn’t obliged to provide a 
courtesy car under the agreement.
However, when I look at a complaint I don’t just take account of the law but also whether 
there’s has been a negative impact on the consumer if something has gone wrong and if 
compensation is justified to cover any impact. Here Mrs C was inconvenienced by the 
number of repairs and the period she was without the car. Mrs C had to arrange alternative 
transport as she couldn’t be without a car because of her work. Mrs C also says she has now 
lost confidence in the car and wants to change it.
I don’t think it’s fair and reasonable to find that the number of repairs and loss of the car 
didn’t cause Mrs C inconvenience and distress or that compensation isn’t a proportionate 
remedy to her complaint. I agree that £100 compensation is fair in these circumstances.
So for the reasons given above I’m partially upholding Mrs C’s complaint and am asking 
Creation to pay Mrs C £100 compensation. If Mrs C wishes to explore the option of 
directly selling the car to the dealership she will need to contact them directly.
Ref: DRN2690977
3
my final decision
As set out above I’m asking Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs C £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the repeated repairs and loss of 
use of the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2690977
