K821x#11
complaint
Mrs V took out a loan over the telephone in order to consolidate debts. Alongside the loan, 
she purchased a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The cost of the policy was 
borrowed and added to her loan. Mrs V’s loan was repayable over 84 months and the PPI 
policy provided cover for the first 60 months. Mrs V believes that the PPI policy was mis-sold 
by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
my findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above, but have looked at all the 
issues in detail.  In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
this case, I have considered the issues in accordance with our general approach to 
assessing complaints about the mis-sale of PPI, which is well-documented.  This includes 
taking into account the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold, and 
any regulatory rules and guidance relevant to the complaint. In essence, the questions 
I need to consider are:

whether, in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to 
ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Mrs V’s needs.

whether Creation gave Mrs V information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the insurance 
she were buying.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which the business sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether Mrs V is worse off as a result; that is, would Mrs V have done something 
different - i.e. not taken out the policy - if there had been no shortcomings.
On the first point – whether a recommendation was made to Mrs V – I do not intend to make 
a finding.  That is because, as a result of my investigation, I have identified failings in the 
level of information provided to Mrs V.  If these failings had not existed, I conclude that it is 
more likely than not that Mrs V would have declined the policy.  I therefore uphold the 
complaint on this basis. 
I have reached this conclusion because the severely restricted cancellation terms do not 
appear to be disclosed in the call, based on the script provided by Creation.  I note from the 
policy documentation that, for a five year policy like this one, the customer is only entitled to 
a rebate of 13% of the original premium (excluding the interest she has paid or will pay on it 
as a consequence of it having been added to her loan) if the policy is cancelled after two 
years.  This is significantly less than a pro-rata refund and I therefore consider that the 
business had a particular responsibility to bring this fact clearly to Mrs V’s attention during 
the sales call.  There is no evidence that it did so.
If this information had been disclosed during the call, I conclude that a consumer in Mrs V’s 
circumstances – one whose pattern of financial management suggests that debt 
consolidation, refinancing and/or early settlement is a strong possibility – is more likely than 
not to have considered that the policy was not suitable for her needs, and to have declined 
to purchase it.  I therefore find that Mrs V was disadvantaged by the failings of the firm and 
so I uphold her complaint.
I further note that the cover provided by the policy is for a shorter period than the length of 
the loan it is covering.  This was not brought sufficiently to Mrs V’s attention.  In fact, 
Ref: DRN2408594
2
according to the sales script, Mrs V was told incorrectly that the policy would cover the full 
term of the loan, whereas the policy document says, in contradiction, that the policy provides 
cover for a maximum of 60 months.
Under these circumstances, I cannot safely conclude that Mrs V would have been happy to 
have taken the policy if she had been properly informed that it did not cover her repayments 
for the entire length of the loan.
The business has argued that these information failings were corrected by the 
documentation sent after the call.  However, I do not think that it is reasonable for the 
business to rely on follow-up paperwork to correct failings in information disclosure during 
the sales call.  This is true of information gaps (i.e. where relevant information is not 
disclosed during call), but especially true where post-call documentation contradicts the 
information that was given over the phone.
The business has also argued that the decision to purchase the policy was not taken until 
the paperwork was signed and returned.  However, the credit agreement that Creation sent 
after the call includes PPI as part of the credit proposal and there does not appear to be an 
obvious mechanism by which Mrs V could have opted out of the PPI without declining the 
whole agreement (or taking the policy and then cancelling it).  This leads me to conclude that 
it is more likely than not that the decision was largely taken during the call.  I also note that 
the credit agreement contained a hand-written instruction to Mrs V (presumably from the 
sales adviser) to “please tick” with an arrow pointing to the PPI box, further underlining that, 
by the time of receiving the paperwork, her decision to purchase the policy had been 
established.
For these reasons, I conclude that the business failed in its duty to provide clear, fair and not 
misleading information to Mrs V and that, had her information needs been met, it is more 
likely than not that a consumer in her position would have declined the policy.  She has 
therefore suffered financial detriment and I uphold her complaint.
fair compensation
I understand that Mrs V cleared this loan by refinancing with another loan and so her current 
(new) loan will be higher than it would have been had she not bought PPI with her Creation 
loan.  The business will need to:

Restructure her Creation account as though she had not taken PPI and compare the 
amounts she would have been repaying to the amounts she did repay.  Refund these 
overpayments.

Compare her actual settlement figure with what it would have been, had PPI not 
been purchased.  Arrange for her current loan to be restructured and reduced 
accordingly so that her future repayments reflect what they would have been, had 
PPI not been sold on her loan with Creation.

Compare the repayments already made on her new loan with what they would have 
been, had this loan not included the additional borrowing caused by PPI on her 
Creation loan.  Pay compensation equal to these overpayments.
Ref: DRN2408594
3

Pay an additional amount equal to 8% simple interest per annum on each of these 
monthly over-payments (on both loans) from the date they were made until the date 
when compensation is paid by Creation.

Once this total figure has been calculated, the business may deduct any amount 
already paid to Mrs V in respect of refunds and claims.
I find that some aspects of Creation’s complaint handling have been lacking – in particular, 
their apparent failure to acknowledge any responsibility for the fact that contradictory 
information regarding the policy term (recorded differently in the call script and in the policy 
summary) could have resulted in a misunderstanding.  Had they recognised this clear failing 
at an earlier stage, Mrs V might have had a resolution much earlier than she had.  I therefore 
award Mrs V an additional £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs V’s complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay compensation 
in accordance with the redress formula set out above.
John Wightman
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2408594
