complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the quality of a sofa she bought under a finance agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
our initial conclusions
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part.  She considered Mrs M 
should not have been charged £300 for a replacement sofa when the first one was faulty. This sum 
should be refunded. Creation had offered to repay £150.Mrs M had however chosen an alternative 
suite that did not come with a footstool. As such, Creation should not have to provide one. 
Creation does not agree. It says its offer to refund £150 is fair. 
my final decision
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M. 
The cushions sagged within a few months. Several repairs were carried out but the problem 
reoccurred. Creation disputes that there was a problem with the quality of the sofa. It says that Mrs 
M only raised a complaint a few months after she had bought it. I would not however expect 
problems with the cushions to happen so quickly. This is the case even though the sofa was ex 
display. I do not consider that it was fair to ask Mrs M to pay £300 for a replacement sofa. I find 
this sum should be refunded. Mrs M may have had several years use of the sofa, but there have 
been problems for a large part of this time.
Like the adjudicator, I do not consider that Creation should have to provide a replacement 
footstool. Mrs M chose a replacement suite that did not come with this. In light of this, I do not find 
that it would be fair for me to tell Creation to provide one. 
My decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mrs M £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M either to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2015.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service
The ombudsman may complete this section where appropriate – adding comments or further 
explanations of particular relevance to the case. 
ombudsman notes 
Ref: DRN2042583
 
what is a final decision?

A final decision by an ombudsman is our last word on a complaint. We send the final decision 
at the same time to both sides – the consumer and the financial business.  

Our complaints process involves various stages. It gives both parties to the complaint the 
opportunity to tell us their side of the story, provide further information, and disagree with 
our earlier findings – before the ombudsman reviews the case and makes a final decision. 

A final decision is the end of our complaints process. This means the ombudsman will not be 
able to deal with any further correspondence about the merits of the complaint. 
what happens next? 

A final decision only becomes legally binding on the financial business if the consumer 
accepts it. To do this, the consumer should sign and date the acceptance card we send with 
the final decision – and return it to us before the date set out in the decision. 

If the consumer accepts a final decision before the date set out in the decision we will tell the 
financial business – it will then have to comply promptly with any instructions set out by the 
ombudsman in the decision. 

If the consumer does not accept a final decision before the date set out in the decision, neither 
side will be legally bound by it.
Ref: DRN2042583
