K821x#15
complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under S 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a laptop.
background
Mr J purchased laptop from a major retailer and opted for a buy now pay later agreement 
with Creation. He says he was in a hurry and entered the store just before closing and was 
told that the laptop had a CD ROM drive. He discovered it hadn’t and returned it to the shop, 
but as he had opened the box, but not the rest of the packaging, he was refused a refund or 
exchange.
He was travelling abroad for work and contacted Creation to cancel his agreement before he 
left, but it refused. The terms and conditions allow customers to cancel within 14 days and 
so Mr J complained. Creation rejected his complaint and the matter was considered by this 
service. The adjudicator who investigated the matter recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. 
Creation explained that it didn’t agree to his request as it believed Mr J had no intention of 
paying for the laptop. The adjudicator acknowledged why Creation took this view, but Mr J 
fulfilled the terms of the agreement by requesting he be allowed to withdraw from the 
agreement. Any dispute over the items ultimately was between him and the retailer and 
could've been resolved between them. He was satisfied Mr J made clear his intention was to 
withdraw from the agreement as detailed in the correspondence.
He also considered the laptop had been mis-sold. Mr J had relied on the advice of the store 
advisor, not least because the store was closing and the transaction was carried out quickly. 
He was satisfied that Mr J had asked for a laptop with a CD ROM drive and had been told 
that the one he bought met this requirement. 
It was reasonable for Mr J to rely on the expertise of the store advisor and once he realised it 
wasn’t what he had asked for he went back. Mr J returned to the store the next day and 
asked if he could exchange the laptop. He didn’t ask for a refund - he requested the laptop 
be exchanged for one with a CD drive. The adjudicator was satisfied that Mr J going back, 
and so soon after purchase demonstrates he didn’t get what he wanted.
For this reason he believed the laptop was misrepresented and that Creation should do the 
following:

Cancel the agreement;

Refund any payments made towards the agreement; and

Remove any adverse information from Mr J’s credit file
Creation didn’t agree and said the store had confirmed that information about the laptop 
would have been on display. Mr J would have been able to see it didn’t have a CD ROM 
drive. On the issue of the cancellation of the agreement it said Mr J advised he wanted to 
cancel the order and was referred to the retailer. The retailer has stated they do not have 
any record of contact from the customer. Whilst it understood Mr J was unhappy with the 
purchase it didn’t agree that the retailer had made an error in terms of how this product was 
sold. It said it would accept the cash price of the goods in full and final settlement.
Ref: DRN2791479
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Mr J’s version of events rings true and that due to the speed for the 
purchase he relied on the advice of the salesman. Even if the laptop specifications were set 
out somewhere in the store I believe Mr J was told by the salesman that the laptop met his 
requirements. It’s clear that it didn’t and given he returned it the following day with the 
packaging intact save for the outer box I am surprised the store took such an unhelpful 
approach. It appears to have been neither fair nor reasonable. 
As for Creation’s response to his request I believe that it failed to honour its own terms and 
conditions, but as I am satisfied this is a case of misrepresentation I need not consider that 
issue further.
To remedy the matter Creation should do the following:

Cancel the agreement;

Refund any payments made towards the agreement; and

Remove any adverse information from Mr J’s credit file

It should also collect the laptop at a time of Mr J’s convenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to recompense Mr J as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2016.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791479
