K822x
complaint
Mrs B complains about a fixed sum loan agreement she entered into with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to allow her buy a car.
Mrs B is represented in this complaint by her mother in law, Ms E.
background 
In February 2012, Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement to allow her to buy a car.
The car was later involved in an accident and was written off. Mrs B remains liable to pay the 
sums outstanding under the agreement. As at the current time, this is £2127.20. Mrs B is 
unhappy at the way Creation has chased her for payment when she is pregnant. Mrs B says 
this has caused her considerable stress and worry. She also queried the amount of interest 
she had been charged under the agreement. 
Mrs B asked Creation to contact Ms E regarding the loan agreement. It continued however 
to send letters to Mrs B. She complained about this. Creation apologised and credited her 
loan account with £50.
Mrs B was not happy with this response and brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The adjudicator negotiated with Creation and it agreed to reduce the balance due under the 
agreement to £1,287.75. It also refunded interest which should not have been charged in the 
sum of £841.49. The adjudicator noted that £50 had been credited to the account for the 
poor customer service Mrs B had received. 
Mrs B is not happy to accept the proposed settlement offer. She points out, in summary,  
that the settlement figure is incorrect as she has made a monthly payment towards the 
balance since the offer was made. Further the £50 compensation is insufficient to 
compensate her for the stress caused to her while she was pregnant. Further, Ms E has 
spent time and incurred expense bringing the complaint on behalf of Mrs B. Ms E has 
however received no compensation for this. 
Mrs B adds that she paid a deposit when she took out the loan but this is now denied by 
Creation. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loan payments
Although Mrs B’s car has been written off, she remains liable to pay the sums due under the 
loan agreement in the sum of £2127.20. Creation has agreed to reduce this sum. It has said 
that it will accept a settlement figure of £806.39 if this figure is paid by Mrs B in early January 
2015. I consider this offer is fair. Mrs B will need to consider if she is prepared to accept it. If 
so she may wish to contact Creation to discuss it.  
Trouble and upset
Mrs B is very unhappy at the £50 that has been credited to her account. She says she did 
not accept this in settlement for the trouble and upset this complaint has caused. 
Ref: DRN2681301
2
I note that Creation said it was paying this sum for failings in the customer service it had 
provided to Mrs B for recording of the car on the HPI register. She says there have been 
additional issues in the way it has dealt with her. Creation continued to contact Mrs B when 
she asked it to liaise with Ms E. This caused her unnecessary stress during her pregnancy. 
If we decide a business has done something wrong, we can tell it to pay compensation for 
the trouble and upset this has caused a consumer. Our awards are modest, and are not 
designed to punish a business. This is the role of the regulator. 
I am satisfied that the £50 credited to Mrs B’s account is fair compensation for all the failings 
in customer service she received. 
I note Ms E says the £50 does not reflect the time and expense she has incurred in bringing 
the complaint on Mrs B’s behalf. We can however only make awards for any non-financial 
impact or loss affecting a consumer, rather than a representative. We can't make an award 
for a third party's non-financial losses. 
Deposit
There is some confusion over whether Mrs B paid a deposit when she took out the loan 
agreement. She says she did. Creation says she did not. It says the payment that was offset 
from the loan was a discount on the price of the car. I have looked at the contract of sale and 
there is no mention of a deposit. There is however a statement that a discount was given in 
the sum of £153.25. In light of this I find that a deposit was not paid by Mrs B. Instead I 
consider that the sum of £153.25 was a discount in the purchase price of the car. 
my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2015.
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Mrs B may wish to contact Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited if she wishes to accept its settlement offer with regard to the 
money due under the loan agreement. 
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681301
