K820x#14
complaint
Mr L has complained to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) about the way it’s 
responded to a claim he made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In May 2015 Mr L entered into an agreement to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier called My Planet.  It was paid for using finance provided by Creation and installed in 
June 2015.
Because Mr L paid for the system using credit, Creation is responsible for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract – to the same extent as the supplier.  
Represented by a claims management company (“CMC”), Mr L made a s.75 claim to 
Creation as the supplier was no longer trading.
The CMC made several claim points, but in summary said:

The supplier has ceased trading and can’t deliver the system’s 10-year guarantee so 
there is a breach of contract.

The system was misrepresented as the supplier said the energy savings and benefits 
would cover the cost of the finance payments and Mr L would receive free electricity.

Creation failed to carry out an appropriate assessment of affordability and Mr L’s 
creditworthiness.
Creation didn’t uphold the complaint and explained the documentation clearly stated the 
performance of the solar panel system was an estimate and not to be considered a 
guarantee.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, the CMC referred the complaint to our Service on behalf 
of Mr L.
One of our investigators looked into things and issued an assessment recommending that 
the complaint should not be upheld.  He noted that Creation had carried out a calculation to 
show the likely benefit Mr L would receive from the system over the 10-year term of the loan.  
As that sum was greater than the amount Mr L paid to settle the loan, he didn’t feel any 
compensation was due.
The CMC disagreed.  It responded saying that Mr L’s complaint was not being considered on 
its own facts, and the calculation Creation had made was based upon the units of energy 
generated and consumed, rather than the cost of the system.
As no agreement could be reached, I’ve now been asked to review everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN2794310
2
It’s important to address the point the CMC has raised about investigating Mr L’s complaint 
on its own facts.  Whilst this Service aims to be consistent and take account of wider general 
considerations, each complaint is impartially reviewed and decided.  I must assure Mr L that 
whilst I understand he’s likely to be disappointed with the outcome of my decision I have 
reviewed everything provided on his complaint in deciding what’s fair and reasonable.
As Mr L purchased the system using finance with Creation, he is entitled to make a s.75 
claim, as it is jointly and severally liable to the same extent as My Planet.  Creation has 
accepted this.
The CMC raised concerns that Creation failed to carry out an assessment of 
creditworthiness.  I’ve not seen anything to suggest the finance caused Mr L affordability 
issues and I note that he settled the loan account soon after the panels were installed.  
Creation has also explained that it’s not possible for an individual to enter into a credit 
agreement unless an assessment has taken place, and it uses a tool which assesses a 
customer’s circumstances.  Overall I’m satisfied Creation acted reasonably in that respect 
and ensured it was appropriate to provide Mr L credit.
So the issue for me to decide is whether there was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
the system guarantee
The solar panel system was installed in June 2015 and came with a 10-year guarantee.  The 
CMC has said that as the supplier has ceased trading, the guarantee cannot be honoured 
and there is a breach of contract.
As I understand it, the guarantee came in the form of an Insurance Backed Guarantee 
(“IBG”) for a 10-year term to match the loan.  In its final response letter to Mr L’s complaint, 
Creation provided contact details for the scheme which would cover the guarantee in the 
event of a fault with the system.
I’ve seen no evidence that Mr L has needed to claim against the IBG due to any fault with 
the solar panel system.  But in any event, Creation has confirmed that upon evidence of the 
guarantee existing and benefits provided, it would cover it under its s.75 responsibilities.
So, I can’t say there’s been a breach of contract in relation to the guarantee and I consider 
Creation has acted fairly toward Mr L in this regard.
misrepresentation
I understand that Creation has made reference to the purchase agreement signed by Mr L in 
2015. The agreement states that the estimate provided is “given as guidance only”, and 
“should not be considered as a guarantee of performance”.
It has also referred to the Customer Satisfaction Note Mr L signed following installation of the 
panels which states “Any figures are quoted for illustrative purposes only and actual savings 
will vary accordingly to level of energy use”.
But Mr L says the supplier, My Planet, told him the savings and benefits he’d receive from 
the system would pay to service the loan and it’d be self-funding.  On balance, I consider 
Ref: DRN2794310
3
that likely to be the case, and it was a key inducement for Mr L entering into the agreement 
to purchase the system.  So, I consider that expectation was likely represented to Mr L.
Creation carried out a calculation which it says shows that over the 10-year term of the loan, 
the financial benefit Mr L would likely generate is £7,192.44.  As the cost for Mr L to settle 
his loan account was £6,988.66, Creations says the benefit is greater than the cost.
The CMC provided Feed-in-Tariff (“FiT”) statements to show the annual energy generation of 
Mr L’s system.  Having reviewed those statements and Creation’s offer, I’m satisfied it has 
calculated the benefits properly and they are in line with what Mr L was led to believe.
I understand the CMC says that measuring the energy generation in kWh is not the same as 
calculating the monetary value of the benefits provided by the system.  And for this reason, 
Creation’s calculations don’t reflect the representations made to Mr L by the supplier.  Whilst 
I appreciate the point the CMC makes, the solar panel system generates energy which can 
be measured, and it is that benefit which can then be converted to a monetary equivalent in 
the form of FiT benefits and cost savings on bills.
Taking everything into account I’m satisfied Creation’s approach to calculating the benefit is 
fair and reasonable, and the system provides an expected monetary benefit in excess of 
what it cost Mr L.  So, I can’t say the system was misrepresented when it will in fact, have 
likely paid for itself at the end of 10 years.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr L’s complaint 
against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794310
