K820x#11
complaint
Miss D complains about a photo shoot package, paid for with a loan from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She found that the photo 
studio was not responsible for Miss D and her friend arriving 45 minutes late for their 
booking. She was not persuaded that the service and goods provided were not of 
satisfactory quality. And she was satisfied that Creation’s offer – a new makeover and photo 
shoot – was an appropriate response to the complaint.
Miss D did not accept those conclusions so the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Miss D bought a deluxe fashion makeover and photo shoot package for her and a friend in 
October 2011. She paid for this with a fixed-sum loan from Creation. Miss D says that there 
were a number of problems with the package. In summary:

Miss D and her friend were given directions to the Birmingham studio, rather than for 
the Manchester studio (where their appointment was booked). This meant they 
arrived for the session 45 minutes late.

They were not offered the advertised treatments because they were late.

They were not offered refreshments, as advertised.

The makeover was not of satisfactory quality – both Miss D and her friend were 
unhappy with the hair styling and makeup.

The photographs were not of satisfactory quality and ten glass blocks – part of the 
photo package – were not delivered.
Miss D says that she and her friend completed a customer feedback form expressing their 
unhappiness with both the quality of service and the quality of the package the same day. 
Creation disputes this. It says that the supplier is “unable to locate any correspondence 
detailing any possible dissatisfaction with your studio visit and the salon manager does not 
recall any concerns having been raised on the day”. It also says that the photos, CD and 
blocks were sent to Miss D so she must pay for the package. Despite rejecting Miss D’s 
complaint, Creation says that the supplier has agreed to offer Miss D a “VIP session”, 
including another makeover and photo shoot.
I have no reason to doubt Miss D when she says that she and her friend complained to the 
supplier immediately. She also complained to Creation within a month of their session.
Ref: DRN2864395
2
However, many of the problems appear to have arisen because Miss D and her friend were, 
by their own admission, 45 minutes late for the session. I do not hold the supplier 
responsible for this. I am satisfied that Miss D and her friend might reasonably have checked 
the directions they were given before setting off on their journey – particularly given the 
directions were to a studio in Birmingham rather than Manchester. 
As to the quality of the makeover, their enjoyment of the day and possibly the quality of the 
photos may have been a result of Miss D and her friend’s delayed arrival, I find Creation’s 
offer of a new session to be reasonable. I do not agree that Miss D’s loan agreement should 
be cancelled. 
Miss D is under no obligation to accept my decision; if she does not, she remains free to 
continue to pursue the matter – including in court – where sworn evidence can be taken and 
witnesses cross-examined.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint to the extent that I consider Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer to be a reasonable resolution to this matter.
Simon Begley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864395
