K820x#13
complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“CCFL”) will not provide her with 
a refund for a mis-sold loan for eye surgery. In particular, she believed that the treatment 
came with an exclusion-free lifetime guarantee, but she has since found that this is not the 
case. The complaint is brought on Miss B’s behalf by Mr M.
background
Miss B’s problems began when she paid £2,790 for eye surgery to E, with finance provided 
by CCFL in April 2010. E went into administration in 2013, but its business was taken over 
by K. K told Miss B firstly that the lifetime care guarantee no longer applied as she had not 
had her eyes tested within the recommended two years after surgery. She was then told by 
K that she could have two further treatments because the cells in the cornea can deteriorate, 
and she would need to be assessed by a surgeon before treatment would be allowed.
Miss B was unhappy with K’s responses as she said that she had been told that she was 
entitled to top up treatment at any time whenever she wanted it. She would not have had the 
surgery if she had been told about these limitations and the potential risk of her corneas 
deteriorating. She wanted a refund of the loan repayments she had made, which CCFL 
would not agree to.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She did not 
consider that there was enough information to show that the laser eye surgery
was mis-sold. She noted that Miss B was supplied with terms and conditions, which had
been signed by Miss B, and also showed evidence of discussions about the procedure 
between Miss B and the surgeon. Whilst she sympathised with Miss B’s personal situation, 
she believed that there was sufficient information included in the agreement to explain that 
exclusions could apply in certain circumstances.
Mr M disagreed and responded to say that he wished the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Miss B’s complaint is brought against CCFL under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. The general effect of section 75 is that if Miss B has a claim for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation against E, she can also bring that claim against CCFL. To be 
able to uphold that the eye surgery was misrepresented to Miss B, I would need to be able to 
conclude not only that Miss B was given incorrect information, but also that she was induced 
into entering into the contracts because of that information. 
It is not possible to be sure what was discussed between E’s sales representative and 
Miss B before she agreed to the eye surgery. So, I must therefore rely on the documentation 
which Miss B was given at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN2561968
2
Miss B has provided this service with a copy of the Lifetime Care Guarantee and Consent 
Form. 
I note that the front of the Lifetime Care Guarantee says that E will provide unlimited free 
aftercare in order to achieve or exceed the agreed visual outcome. This is asterisked, and at 
the foot of the front page, an asterisk appears next to an explanation that terms and 
conditions apply, and to see the reverse for detail. So, I can see that it was clear from the 
front of the guarantee that the care guarantee was limited in scope, and that conditions 
applied to it. 
I note that in the second paragraph on the reverse it says:-
“We can never guarantee the outcome and in some circumstances your surgeon may advise 
you that further treatment is not possible. For all treatments we perform, our first priorities 
are safety and effectiveness, and we will not proceed if the risk outweighs the benefit”. 
So, I can see from this that it is reasonable for a surgeon to assess a patient to see if 
treatment should be allowed.
The guarantee also says:-
“If we do not achieve our targeted visual outcome with the first treatment, your surgeon may 
feel that a re-treatment may produce better unaided vision, and this will be performed free of 
charge, as it is part of the overall treatment process. Any decision as to whether a 
re-treatment is appropriate will be discussed between the surgeon and yourself, and, subject 
to the "Exclusions" below, the re-treatment will take place for no charge. A re-treatment may 
not always be possible or medically appropriate (for example, if the patient has insufficient 
corneal tissue remaining). Such a decision would only ever be taken in your best interests, 
but in these rare cases, we would not be able to fulfil our commitment to 
re-treat….Occasionally, although the treatment or re-treatment may be satisfactory, your 
underlying eye condition may mean that [E] is unable to improve this pre-existing condition”.
The guarantee also refers to an aftercare programme which includes the need to have an 
eye examination at least every two years. There is an exclusion that the guarantee will 
become void if the aftercare programme is not followed, or if the patient has insufficient 
corneal tissue remaining to permit further treatment.
 
I note that Miss B did not have an eye examination within the two years following the 
surgery, so I can see that that E could have cancelled the guarantee because of this. 
I also note that Miss B said that she was not told that the cells in her cornea could 
deteriorate. But the consent form which she signed contains details of the short and long 
term side effects of the treatment including scarring and haziness of the cornea. Just above 
where Miss B signed the consent form, it said:-
“In signing below, I give my agreement to proceed with laser eye treatment and confirm I 
have received this consent form in advance of treatment day and with sufficient time to 
understand its contents”.
In view of the above, it is clear to me that top up treatment was not available at any time, and 
if Miss B had read the guarantee, she would have understood this. It is also clear that 
Ref: DRN2561968
3
deterioration of the cornea was listed as a side effect of the treatment. I am not persuaded 
that I can hold CCFL responsible if Miss B did not read the documents, or query what they 
said before she signed them, especially in view of the importance of being aware of the 
potential risks of medical procedures. On balance, I cannot safely conclude that E’s sales 
representative would have provided Miss B with information which contradicted the medical 
exclusions.
So, having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I am not persuaded, on 
balance, that there is enough evidence to show that the eye surgery contract was 
misrepresented to Miss B, or that she was induced into entering into the contract by such a 
misrepresentation. So, I find that I have come to the same conclusions as the adjudicator did 
for much the same reasons. K has offered Miss B up to two more treatments provided that 
she is assessed by a surgeon as suitable for these. In the circumstances, I consider this to 
be fair and reasonable. I appreciate that Miss B would prefer to see a refund of her 
repayments and the loan cancelled. But, I do not see any basis on which I could reasonably 
order this.  
I appreciate that Miss B will be unhappy with my decision. However, she is not bound by it. If 
she does not accept my decision, her legal rights remain intact.
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2015.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2561968
