K822x
complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance (‘Creation’), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
background
Mr and Mrs M were contacted by I-Power Systems Ltd (‘I-Power’), a company that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting Mr and Mrs M agreed to enter into a contract 
with I-Power for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about £11,000. To fund this 
Mr and Mrs M also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. They said that I-Power had 
told them that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments 
would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and savings from using the 
electricity generated by the solar panel system rather than buying it from their energy provider. 
But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher. 
In its final response letter, Creation said that it was prepared to reduce Mr and Mrs M’s loan 
amount by 25% as the system was underperforming. Unhappy with this response, 
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service.
Following our involvement Creation made an offer to resolve Mr and Mrs M’s complaint. It had 
worked out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr and 
Mrs M from the solar panels over the 10 year loan term. It had then reworked the loan so that 
they would pay no more than that over the loan term. It also offered to pay 
Mr and Mrs M £100 to reflect the trouble and upset this had caused them
One of our investigators looked into the offer put forward by Creation. They felt the offer was 
fair. Mr and Mrs M didn’t.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’d like to thank Mr and Mrs M for their patience whilst their complaint has been with this 
service.
Mr and Mrs M say they were cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar 
panels would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mr and Mrs M dispute that 
the benefits of the system were misrepresented this decision will deal with what I consider to 
be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ref: DRN2018472
2
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from Mr and Mrs M’s home. Rather, 
I think the fair outcome here is to put them in a position where the panels are self-funding 
over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs M to keep the panels, I am 
satisfied that they will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going 
forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has finished).
I’m satisfied that Mr and Mrs M were misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that 
question, I think it’s fair to take account of the electricity generated by the solar panel units. On 
the one hand Mr and Mrs M have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in addition to that 
generated by the panels, and on the other they can off-set those payments by the FIT payments 
and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It would be unfair to 
ignore the electricity generated and used by Mr and Mrs M when calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Mr and Mrs M’s solar panel system. 
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of 
Mr and Mrs M’s solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr and Mrs M’s solar 
panels that they are expected to use, rather than buying electricity from their energy provider. 
It’s clear that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time someone is in their home 
and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar panel system is generating. It is 
difficult, for the reason described above, to determine an exact figure over the period of the 
loan. And my role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isn’t an exact science.
Having considered all of the information available to me, I’m of the view that a 37% self-
consumption rate is fair and reasonable. I’m of the opinion that this takes into account all the 
available evidence and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy habits over 
the lifetime of the solar panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m satisfied that it is 
highly likely that Mr and Mrs M will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a 
reduction in their electricity bills, because of the electricity generated by the panels, and the 
FIT payments.  
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mr and Mrs M are understandably concerned that the insurer, who backed the guarantee 
provided with their solar panel system, has since gone into administration. They are worried that 
this means they are now liable for any repair costs needed to maintain their solar panel system.
Ref: DRN2018472
3
Creation has agreed that as long as Mr and Mrs M can provide Creation with a copy of their 
warranty, and it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour the 
warranty. This doesn’t guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mr and Mrs M 
experience any system issues within the original warrantee period, they’d be entitled to raise 
a claim under the warranty and Creation will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800.
I accept that Mr and Mrs M could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime 
of the solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for Mr and Mrs M is to make 
the solar panels self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been 
repaid, as I’ve already outlined above, Mr and Mrs M are highly likely to enjoy significant 
benefit from the solar panel system by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs M have the flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover their 
overpayments together with interest. 
Based on the available information, I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than 
cover any future maintenance costs and Mr and Mrs M will be able to use their 
compensation payment to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons I’ve given above, I’m not persuaded that Creation should make an 
award for maintenance and repairs costs. 
By making the panels self-funding, Mr and Mrs M’s monthly repayments will reduce, 
meaning that they would’ve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an 
overpayment. And as Mr and Mrs M would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mr and Mrs M have the following selection of options as to how they would like their 
overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and, if a 
balance remains outstanding, they continue to make their current monthly payment 
resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and, if a 
balance remains outstanding, they pay a new, lower monthly payment until the end of 
the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they pay a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was enough information available at the time that Mr and Mrs M first 
contacted Creation that means that their claim should have been upheld. The fact that this 
did not happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset and I’m satisfied that the £100 
put forward by Creation is fair.
Ref: DRN2018472
4
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs M’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Creation Consumer Finance should:
(a) allow Mr and Mrs M to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs M from the panels over the 
10 year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, 
it should use Mr and Mrs M’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement, and;
(d) pay Mr and Mrs M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its’s taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs. 
Ref: DRN2018472
