K821x#9
complaint
Miss K complains that some furniture that she bought using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
her.
background
Miss K bought some furniture using a fixed sum loan agreement. It was delivered to her in 
December 2010, she complained about some defects in January 2011 and some remedial 
work was undertaken in February 2011. Miss K remained unhappy with the furniture so the 
supplier visited again in March 2011. It concluded that there was no fault with the furniture 
but did not confirm its findings to Miss K until August 2011. Miss K obtained an independent 
report in January 2012 which highlighted a number of major faults. Miss K sent the report to 
Creation Consumer Finance but it says that it did not receive it until it was resent in 
September 2012. Creation Consumer Finance offered to reduce the price of the furniture but 
Miss K was not satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Miss K’s request to reject the goods was not unreasonable. He recommended that Creation 
Consumer Finance should refund the £38 cost of the independent report, cancel the finance 
agreement, collect the furniture and refund all payments made to it by Miss K with interest.
Creation Consumer Finance says that it would reduce the total purchase price for the 
furniture to £850 (a write-off of £709) but it refers to comments made by the supplier. The 
supplier says, amongst other things, that the pen marks on the furniture have been caused 
since it was delivered to Miss K and have not been addressed when considering what is fair 
and reasonable. It says that a partial refund would be the most reasonable solution.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The furniture was delivered to Miss K in December 2010. She complained to the supplier 
about it in January 2011 and some repairs were made in February 2011. Miss K remained 
unsatisfied with the furniture so again complained to the supplier.
It inspected the furniture again in March 2011 and concluded that there were no faults but it 
did not confirm its findings to Miss K until August 2011. Miss K remained unsatisfied so in 
January 2012 she had the furniture inspected by an independent expert. It concluded that 
there were a number of significant faults with the furniture. Miss K says that she sent the 
expert’s report to Creation Consumer Finance but it did not receive it. She resent it in 
September 2012.
It is clear to me that Miss K was never satisfied with the furniture. There were delays in the 
process: firstly when the supplier did not confirm the findings from its March 2011 inspection 
until August 2011; secondly when Miss K did not have the furniture inspected until January 
2012; and thirdly when Creation Consumer Finance did not receive the independent report 
when it was first sent to it.
Ref: DRN2594255
2
The independent report in January 2012 listed a number of faults with the furniture. With the 
exceptions of the pigment colour coating cracking and peeling and the pen marks, the faults 
would have been present when the furniture was supplied to Miss K. I am therefore 
persuaded that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss K in 
December 2010. The faults were promptly reported to the supplier but were not adequately 
remedied. I therefore consider that it is now fair and reasonable for Miss K to reject the 
furniture. There is now pen damage to the furniture but if the supplier had properly 
responded to Miss K’s original complaints, it is more likely than not that it would have either 
repaired or replaced the furniture before the pen damage was caused. I consider that 
Creation Consumer Finance should cancel the credit agreement, collect the furniture at no 
cost to Miss K, refund to her all money that she has paid to it under the fixed sum loan 
agreement, refund to her the cost of the independent report and that it should pay interest on 
those amounts.
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss K’s complaint. In full 
and final settlement of it I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Cancel the finance agreement and collect the furniture at no cost to Miss K.
2.
Refund to Miss K all payments that she has made to it under the fixed sum loan 
agreement.
3.
Refund to Miss K the £38 cost of the independent report.
4.
Pay interest on the amounts at 2. and 3. above at an annual rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Creation Consumer Finance considers that it has to deduct tax from the interest element of 
my award, it should send Miss K a tax deduction certificate when making payment. She can 
then use that certificate to reclaim the tax if she is entitled to do so.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2594255
