K821x#12
complaint and background
This complaint relates to two single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
purchased by Mr C from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’). Mr C says Creation 
mis-sold the policies. 
I have attached my provisional decision dated 27 January 2014, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to let me have their final submissions by 27 February 2014. Creation 
has advised it has nothing further to add. I understand that Mr C accepts my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither party has provided any new 
arguments or submissions for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Mr C. I also require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr C fair compensation of redress as I have set out 
below.
Jonathan Hanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482635
2
COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint concerns the sale of two separate single premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (‘PPI’) policies by Open & Direct Retail Services Limited, which is now known as Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited. For the purposes of this decision I will refer to the business as ‘Creation’. 
Mr C complains Creation mis-sold the policies. 
background
Mr C was sold the first PPI policy when taking out a loan from Creation in February 2005. The term of 
the loan and the PPI were both four years. The premium for the PPI was added to Mr C’s loan. 
Mr C was sold the second PPI policy in February 2006 when ‘topping up’ (and settling in full) the loan 
above. The term of the new loan and PPI were again four years, with the cost of the PPI premium 
being added to the loan. The 2005 PPI policy was also cancelled at this time. 
In September 2006, Mr C settled his second loan early. 
Our adjudicator considered that Creation had mis-sold the policies and upheld Mr C’s complaint. 
Creation does not agree with the adjudicator’s view, so the complaint has been referred to me for a 
decision. 
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have taken into account any relevant regulatory rules, the law, and good industry 
practice at the time each policy was sold.
It seems to me the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in our 
well-established general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, which is published on our 
website.
The key questions I need to consider therefore are:

whether Creation gave Mr C information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put him 
in a position where he could make informed choice about the insurance policies he was buying; 
and 

whether, in giving any advice, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr C’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way Creation sold the policies, I then need to consider whether Mr C 
is worse off as a result; that is, would he have done something different – eg not taken out the policies 
– if there had been no shortcomings.
basis of sale
Mr C says Creation recommended he purchase the PPI policies as part of an advised sale process, 
while Creation says it did not make a recommendation. 
Ref: DRN2482635
3
In this case, I have not drawn any firm conclusions as to whether Creation gave Mr C advice because 
I do not think it is crucial to the outcome of the complaint. I say this because for the reasons set out 
below, I am not persuaded Creation properly explained the optional nature of the PPI in either sale, or 
that it provided Mr C with information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an 
informed choice about the insurance policies he was buying. 
was the optional nature of the PPI policies made clear?
Mr C has said at no point in either sale did Creation make it clear that the PPI was optional. Creation, 
on the other hand, say that its process would have made it clear to Mr C that the PPI was optional. 
I will now consider the circumstances behind each sale to decide if the policies were presented as 
being optional. 
Reviewing all the information available about both sales, for the reasons I set out below I am not 
persuaded that Creation made it sufficiently clear to Mr C that either PPI policy was optional. In 
reaching this conclusion, I have taken into account Creation’s submissions related to the credit 
agreements, the sales script, and the Key Facts information sheets it says Mr C would have received. 
I have no evidence that the extract of the sales script provided by Creation was followed in either 
case. In any event, even if it was, I do not consider it sufficiently makes it clear to Mr C that the policy 
was optional. All the script states is that it ‘may prove useful’ for sales advisers to give two quotations, 
one with PPI and one without. The script does not make giving two separate quotes mandatory, or 
prompt the sales advisers to explain the policy being sold was optional. 
Creation has also said the ‘Key Facts’ document it says Mr C would have received in both 2005 and 
2006 states ‘You will then need to make your own choice about how to proceed’, making it clear that 
the policy was optional. However, I am not persuaded the extract does this.
This is because the wording of the key facts document relates to Mr C making a choice (rather than 
taking advice) and, as such, do not refer to the policy being optional. In any event, Mr C’s attention 
would have been focussed on signing the parts of the credit agreements as highlighted by Creation, 
rather than what the key facts document said. It is also worth noting the credit agreements Mr C is 
likely to have received at the same time as the key fact documents both assume Mr C would 
purchase the policies, given they already included the cost of the policies. 
I therefore conclude that the policies are not likely to have been presented to Mr C as being optional, 
and this, in of itself, is sufficient basis for me to uphold his complaints about the sales of PPI. It is 
worthwhile to briefly set out that even if I had found that the optional nature of the PPI was explained, 
for the reasons below I would still uphold Mr C’s complaint because of Creation’s information failings, 
as set out below. 
information
Creation was obliged to provide Mr C with information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make informed choices about the insurance policies he was 
buying. In this case, I am not persuaded that Creation did. 
cancellation terms
A significant feature of the policies Mr C took out was that they provided a less than pro rata refund of 
the single premium amount when cancelled early. Therefore, Creation should have explained this 
significant feature to Mr C, including giving him specific information about how much he would receive 
depending on when he cancelled. I am not satisfied Creation did. 
Ref: DRN2482635
4
Reviewing Creation’s partial sales script of what Mr C was likely to have been told, I note there is no 
mention that any refund would be less than proportionate, the script instead referring customers to the 
policy terms and conditions for full details.
While I appreciate that a detailed review of the PPI policies might have made Mr C aware of the less 
than proportionate refund, I do not consider this information was given enough prominence. This is 
because information about refunds on early cancellation appears only towards the end of the policy 
documents. In any event, as I note above Mr C would have placed more reliance on the information 
he was given during the telephone calls, rather than thinking he would need to read the 
documentation posted to him after the call in detail. I am therefore not persuaded Creation did enough 
to draw this significant feature of the policies to Mr C’s attention. 
In my view, Mr C’s circumstances at the time of each sale made it likely that he would consider 
restructuring his lending in the future. While there is no evidence that this was discussed at the time 
Mr C purchased the policies, I am persuaded by Mr C’s representative’s testimony that Mr C was 
consolidating external debt in an effort to try and sort out his finances. In these circumstances, I am 
satisfied in the circumstances that had the less than proportionate refunds Mr C would receive if he 
cancelled either policy early had been explained to him, he would not have taken out the policies. 
Overall, I conclude that Creation failed to present either PPI policy as being optional, nor did it meet 
his information needs in either sale.
successive sale
Before I go on to discuss appropriate compensation, it is worthwhile briefly setting out that the 2006 
PPI sale was a ‘successive sale.’ What that means is that when Mr C topped up his borrowing in 
2006, instead of setting up a new loan running alongside the earlier loan, Creation set up one new 
loan, incorporating and settling the 2005 loan. 
This meant that the four year PPI policy purchased with the 2005 loan was cancelled, with Creation 
selling a new PPI policy. Appropriate compensation will require consideration of the fact that the 2006 
lending may have incorporated the residual cost of the 2005 PPI policy.
redress
I consider that the appropriate approach to fair compensation in this case is to require Creation to 
compensate Mr C by putting him (so far as is now practicable) in the position he would have been in, 
had he not taken out the policies. 
So in this case, Creation should:
A.
For each loan work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr C because PPI was 
added to his loan and/or because any PPI was carried forward from a previous loan or loans by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr C had taken out the loan without 
PPI, and if PPI had not been carried over from a previous loan.

subtracting those amounts from what Mr C actually paid and paying him the difference.

paying Mr C interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 8% a year 
from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid.†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr C when the policy is cancelled or the value of 
any successful claim.
Ref: DRN2482635
5

taking into account any residual PPI from the loan taken out in 2005.
B.
Write to Mr C to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A)
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. 
Whether Mr C needs to take any further action will depend on his financial circumstances. More 
information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr C should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should 
contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of 
the compensation.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above I am minded to uphold this complaint and make an award against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
I now invite both parties to provide any further submissions they wish to make, in writing, within one 
month, after which I will issue my final decision.
Jonathan Hanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482635
