K822x
Complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“the CCA”) in 
relation to a solar panel system she says was misrepresented by the supplier.
Background 
Mrs S was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as “A”, that supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a subsequent sales meeting, Mrs S agreed to have a solar panel 
system installed at her home. The system cost £7,155, and to pay for it, Mrs S agreed to 
enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. Mrs S has said that she was 
told that the solar panel system would be “self-funded” and that the monthly loan repayments 
would be more than offset by the financial benefit she’d receive from the solar panels by way 
of feed-in-tariff (“FIT”) payments and savings on her electricity bills and that she would 
receive over £40,000 in benefits over the 20 year lifetime of the solar panels. Mrs S has said 
that this has not turned out to be the case.
Mrs S, via her representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to Creation. She 
said that what she had been told about the performance of the system and that it would be 
“self-funding” were misrepresentations, and that is was these misrepresentations that 
induced her to enter into the contract with A. 
In its final response letter, Creation said it didn’t believe that the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs S. Unhappy with this response, Mrs S referred her complaint to this 
service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle Mrs S’s complaint. It said it had 
calculated the potential savings and income to Mrs S over the 10 year term of the loan. It 
said it would then restructure the loan so that Mrs S would pay no more than this. As Mrs S 
had settled her Creation loan early, she had paid more than the estimated benefits, so 
Creation offered to refund her the difference plus some compensatory interest. It also offered 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
One of our investigators thought that the offer from Creation was fair. The investigator asked 
Mrs S to provide credit card statements from when she settled the loan early and information 
one the loan that Mrs S had subsequently taken out to pay off her credit card. This was so 
she could take all payments Mrs S had made towards the cost of the solar panel system into 
account. Mrs S was able to provide the loan details but not the credit card statements due to 
the amount of time that has passed.
Mrs S, via her representative, didn’t accept the investigators view of her complaint. In 
summary she said she didn’t think the investigator had taken into account that she was 
induced to enter into the contract by the misrepresentation of the promised returns over the 
lifetime of the system. She also said that she couldn’t understand why her refund offer was 
so low compared to a friend who had a similar system installed. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN2041654
2
Mrs S says that he was approach by the installer and during a subsequent sales meeting 
told that the system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Creation nor Mrs S dispute that 
the benefits of the system were misrepresented and as a result, this decision will deal with 
what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably and with minimum formality. In cases of 
this nature, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
Mrs S has said that is was the misrepresentations made by the system installer that induced 
her to enter into the contract to have the solar panels installed at her home. Mrs S has said 
the following misrepresentations were made to her:

The system would be “self-funded” and her monthly loan repayments would have 
been covered by the benefits from the system.

The system would provide her an overall benefit of around £40,000.
Deciding on fair compensation is not an exact science. As I’ve explained above, it’s not in 
dispute that there were misrepresentations that induced Mrs S into entering the contract. I do 
not think that trying to make the misrepresentation true here would represent fair 
compensation. Rather, in this case, I’m trying to ensure that Mrs S doesn’t suffer a financial 
loss because of the misrepresentation. In certain situations, this may involve trying to put 
Mrs S back in the position she would’ve been in if the mis-representation had not been 
made. 
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mrs S doesn’t suffer a 
financial loss due to the misrepresentation which in my view would  mean that the solar 
panel system should be cost neutral over the 10 year loan term – in summary, my aim is to 
make sure that total outgoings (including the monthly loan repayments)  are equal to any 
income and savings that the panels generate
Whilst I appreciate that the offer from Creation doesn’t mean that Mrs S will receive the 
overall benefits she was led to believe, I’m satisfied that she will still receive a profit over and 
above the cost of the solar panel system. Taking this into account, I’m satisfied that the offer 
from Creation to make the solar panel system self-funding over the original 10 year term of 
the loan is fair and reasonable.
I understand that Mrs S is unhappy as her offer is lower than a friend who had a similar 
system installed. I’m only considering Mrs S’s complaint, so I am unable to comment on any 
offers other consumers may have received.
I have reviewed the calculation that Creation has used to calculate the estimated benefits 
from the solar panel system over the 10 year term of the loan. Having done so, I’m satisfied 
the methodology used by Creation is based on the actual performance and estimated future 
performance of Mrs S’s system. 
To calculate the estimated future performance, Creation has used a number of assumptions. 
I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Ref: DRN2041654
3
Based on the FIT statements that Mrs S has provided, I can see that her system has 
generated slightly more than Creation has estimated it would. As Creations estimated figure 
works in Mrs S favour, I see no reason to ask it to recalculate it’s offer. 
Mrs S has said that she settled the Creation loan early with a credit card and has 
subsequently paid off the outstanding balance of her credit card with a loan.
Usually I would ask Creation to take into account the amount paid towards the credit card 
and the loan when calculating the overall amount that Mrs S has paid for the solar panel 
system. This is because I would expect Creation to take into account the additional cost 
caused by refinancing to ensure that Mrs S pays no more than the overall financial benefits, 
she is estimated to receive over 10 years. 
Due to the time that has passed, Mrs S is unable to provide any paperwork to show the 
overall amount she paid back on the credit card and the outstanding balance that was 
consolidated in the additional loan. So, there isn’t any paperwork available to allow Creation 
to quantify this additional cost.
Taking the above into account I’m satisfied that the current offer from Creation is fair.
I’m satisfied that there was enough information available at the time that Mrs S first 
contacted Creation which meant her claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didn’t 
happen undoubtedly caused her distress and inconvenience and I’ll make an award of £100 
to recognise this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs S’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mrs S to keep the system,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs S from the system over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mrs S’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement; and,

pay Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it has taken off. 
It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2041654
