K820x#14
complaint
Mr G complains about furniture he bought through finance supplied by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. He believes the furniture supplied to him is a different colour, or shade, to the 
furniture he ordered. He would like to reject the goods and have them replaced with the 
correct colour.
background
Mr G and his wife visited a retailer and after considering the options available in the store 
decided on a particular suite. This was a three seater sofa and two single seater chairs. The 
material was leather and the colour of the suite was described as expresso. The furniture 
was paid for through a loan with Creation and Mr G would repay the loan over the agreed 
repayment period. 
After receiving the suite, Mr G complained about its colour and that it was different to the 
colour he had ordered. Although still in brown leather, it was a different shade of brown and 
Mr G felt it was darker than he’d ordered. After complaining to the store and Creation Mr G 
referred his complaint to us. An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and explained why she 
didn’t believe it should be upheld.
Mr G didn’t accept the adjudicator’s conclusion so the complaint has been referred to me for 
consideration. After initially reviewing the submissions from the parties I asked Mr G if I 
would be able to visit him and compare the suite with the one in the store. Mr G agreed to 
this. Along with a colleague, I visited the retailer and Mr G. I compared a colour swatch in the 
store to the suite on sale in the store and then to Mr G’s suite. 
I then informed the parties that I felt the colour swatch matched the suite in store and the 
suite Mr G had. Because of this I was satisfied Mr G had been provided with the correct 
colour suite. Mr G did not accept my initial conclusions so I have now reconsidered the 
complaint. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For the same reasons as previously 
explained, I do not uphold this complaint and I’m satisfied Mr G was provided with the 
correct colour suite. 
The relevant legislation says that goods supplied must match their description and if sold by 
a sample they should match that sample. In this case, Mr G said he visited the store and 
chose the particular suite after seeing it in the store. The suite was in leather and its colour 
was described as expresso. Mr G has told us he visited the store recently and the same 
suite, in expresso, was still on show in the store.
When I visited the store I was given the colour swatches and I was told which one of these 
was expresso. The swatch didn’t actually have the colour name on the back but when 
comparing it to the suite in the store it was clear it was the same colour as the one in store. 
The suite in the store was labelled expresso and the labels were on the three seat sofa and 
the single seat chairs. I was satisfied the swatch matched the expresso suite in the store. 
Ref: DRN3742907
2
I then took the swatch to Mr G’s house to compare the colour swatch to Mr G’s suite. While 
at Mr G’s house I compared the swatch to the three seater sofa and the two single seat 
armchairs. When comparing the swatch to Mr G’s furniture it was clear to me that the swatch 
was the same colour as the furniture. 
I returned to the store and again compared the swatch to the suite in store. At this point I 
also used another swatch that was actually labelled expresso. The two swatches matched 
each other and both matched the suite in store. 
To uphold Mr G’s complaint I’d need to be persuaded the suite he received was not what 
he’d actually ordered. However, the two swatches matched the suite in the store and the 
swatch I took to Mr G’s house matched the suite at his home. This sufficiently shows the 
suite Mr G has at home would match the one in store if it was taken back to the store. This is 
however impractical, which is why I used the swatch to compare the colour. 
I appreciate the photos Mr G has provided and the pictures from the retailer’s website 
suggest the colours are different. However, I have seen Mr G’s furniture and the store 
furniture and matched them both to the colour swatch. This is a more accurate way to 
compare the colours and the pictures provided by Mr G are not enough to demonstrate the 
actual furniture doesn’t match. 
I’m satisfied Mr G ordered expresso and this is the colour he received. I don’t therefore think 
it’s fair or reasonable to instruct Creation to take back the suite or write off what’s due under 
the finance agreement. 
I’m aware Mr G will remain unhappy with the decision I’ve reached here but there are no 
grounds for me to uphold this complaint. Mr G has indicated he wishes to pursue his 
complaint further but he will need to seek separate legal advice about how best to do this. 
This final decision represents the last stage in our process.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2015.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3742907
