K822x
complaint
Mr J has complained that a sofa he financed using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
background 
Mr J used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a sofa, chair and fabric repair 
kit in May 2017. The goods cost around £1,600. He also paid £200 for a five-year fabric 
guard. 
Mr J wasn’t satisfied with the quality of the sofa so he complained to Creation and the 
supplier around three months after it was delivered. He said the sofa had poor quality 
cushions and that the foam inside it was out of shape. The supplier agreed to inspect the 
sofa. Mr J says the supplier didn’t attend the initial appointment, but it carried out an 
inspection in January 2018. 
The supplier couldn’t find a problem with the springs or the frame. And it said the foam 
interiors had settled in line with use. Creation responded to say the complaint should be 
directed to the supplier. Mr J wasn’t happy with either response, so he paid £40 for an 
independent inspection to be carried out. The independent report said:

The seat interiors are very soft and have little resilience. These interiors have settled 
beyond the expected tolerance and are not functioning as they should. 

The inside backs have not been upholstered correctly. The webbing and inner lining 
has not had enough tension applied. This has caused the fabric of the inside back to 
sink inwards. The other issue is as there is no foam along the bottom rails, the 
sunken fabric is rubbing against a sharp raw edge.
The technician concluded the interiors wouldn’t last the expected life of the sofa and are 
already showing need of replacement. He also said the inside back fabric would rip and tear 
in time along the sharp edges.
Mr J asked our service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator recommended this complaint should be upheld. He said the independent 
report indicates the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. And he 
recommended that Mr J should be able to return the sofa to Creation and receive a full 
refund for the amounts he paid (with interest).
Creation initially said the complaint had been made out of time because Mr J had referred it 
to our service more than six months after it sent its final response. It also didn’t agree with 
the investigator’s recommendations. It said, in summary, the report provided by Mr J isn’t 
suitable or appropriate and doesn’t take into consideration what the actual fault is. It has also 
said the sofa was delivered to Mr J’s partner, so a valid relationship for a claim to be made 
under section 75 doesn’t exist. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2019:
Ref: DRN3312578
2
Mr J’s referral of the complaint
Mr J contacted Creation because he was unhappy with the quality of the sofa, and it sent 
him its final response on 1 February 2018. Creation’s final response said that the supplier 
would be better placed to deal with the complaint. And it let Mr J know that he had six 
months to refer the complaint to our service. Mr J contacted our service a few days later to 
say that he was unhappy with Creation’s response. So I think Mr J referred his complaint to 
our service within six months of Creation’s final response letter. I think the complaint has 
been brought in time. 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
Mr J paid for the sofa and chair using a regulated consumer credit agreement with Creation. 
Our service is able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
When considering if Creation acted fairly in dealing with Mr J’s claim, I take into account the 
relevant law. So in Mr J’s case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) makes 
Creation responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under 
certain conditions. One of those conditions is that there must be a direct relationship 
between the debtor (Mr J), the creditor (Creation) and the supplier (furniture shop).
The CCA defines ‘debtor’ as the individual receiving credit under a consumer credit 
agreement. In this case, that’s Mr J because he entered into the agreement with Creation. 
The supply contract and delivery documentation is in Mr J’s partner’s name. They didn’t live 
together at the time he entered into the agreement with Creation. And the sofa and chair 
were delivered to her address. But Mr J tells us that he was due to move in with her after the 
goods were delivered, and it was a sofa they planned on using together. They currently live 
together and share it. So while Mr J wasn’t named on the supply contract or delivery 
paperwork, he and his partner were making a joint purchase as part of their joint affairs. 
Therefore, I think he’s jointly contracting with the supplier and the debtor-creditor-supplier 
chain hasn’t been broken. So I think the necessary relationship for a claim to be considered 
under section 75 exists. 
quality of goods
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) was implied into the contract when Mr J bought the 
sofa and chair. Under contracts like these, there are implied terms that the goods supplied 
will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In this case, Mr J purchased a brand new sofa and chair from the supplier. So they should 
have been in perfect condition, without any defects. Mr J should not have expected anything 
significant to go wrong soon after buying the goods. And they should have been sufficiently 
durable.
Ref: DRN3312578
3
Mr J complained about problems with the sofa within a few months of it being delivered. The 
supplier couldn’t find any problems with it so Mr J paid for an independent report to be 
carried out. I don’t think Mr J would have gone to these lengths unless he genuinely thought 
there was a problem. Mr J has also told us that he’s stopped using the sofa, and that it’s 
been stored in his garage – which has caused him further inconvenience. I think Mr J has 
been consistent and credible throughout. 
While Creation doesn’t think the report is adequate, I think it’s quite clear the technician 
didn’t think the goods were of satisfactory quality. From reading the report, I think it’s more 
likely than not that the goods will not last their life expectancy. And while the report may not 
look like other reports that Creation has commissioned, from looking at the technician’s 
website, and from listening to our investigator’s call with him, on balance, I think he’s suitably 
qualified to carry out an assessment on the sofa. He said he didn’t know Mr J prior to 
completing the report and he assumed that Mr J had found his details on the internet. But he 
remembers carrying out the report. Due to the length of time that has passed, the technician 
no longer has the photos he took. But he was able to clearly explain his main concern there 
was no protection between the beams and the back of the sofa, meaning the material was 
rubbing on the beams and that this would eventually lead to a tear. 
Creation offered to get another independent assessment carried out. But it had the 
opportunity to do this when Mr J originally complained. And in any event, I don’t think this is 
necessary. On balance, I think there’s enough evidence to demonstrate there’s been a 
breach of contract. Mr J complained about the goods more than 30 days after they were 
delivered. So normally, the supplier should get an opportunity to repair them. But any repair 
should happen within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
customer. In this case, given everything that has happened, and taking into account how 
long ago Mr J complained I don’t think it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for Creation to have 
an attempt to arrange a repair. I think it’s fair that Mr J be allowed to reject the sofa and 
chair. And I think it’s fair he’s reimbursed the cost of the report. 
I’ve taken into account how long Mr J says he used the goods for – only a few months. And 
I’ve also considered that he says he’s had them in storage for the rest of the time. In the 
circumstances, I think it fair that he receives a full refund of what he’s paid. I don’t think 
Creation should be entitled to make a deduction for usage. 
conclusion
I don’t think the goods were of satisfactory quality. And I think now Mr J should be entitled to 
reject them and to receive his money back. 
I also think Creation could have done more to help Mr J when he put in his claim. Creation is 
jointly liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. It passed on the 
complaint to the supplier. But Mr J had already been in touch with the supplier and it had 
inspected the goods. I think Creation should have taken ownership of the claim and made 
sure it was investigated properly. I can’t see that it followed up with Mr J to see if the 
complaint had been resolved, and I think its actions have delayed things and caused 
inconvenience to him. In the circumstances, I think it should pay him £100 in recognition of 
the inconvenience it’s caused.
Ref: DRN3312578
4
Mr J agreed with my provisional decision but Creation didn’t. In summary, Creation reiterated 
that it didn’t think the report was adequate. It offered to obtain another independent report. It 
also pointed out that Mr J tried to reject the goods outside of 30 days after delivery. It says 
that therefore it should be given an opportunity to arrange to repair the goods in the first 
instance. Creation also says there was only a fault with the sofa and not the whole order – 
so it’s not fair for Mr J to be able to hand everything back. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve thought about everything Creation has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
I’ve already considered most of these points when making my provisional decision so I won’t 
repeat everything here. I’ve set out why I thought the report that Mr J obtained was 
adequate. The technician was independent and from listening to our call with him, he 
seemed credible, with significant experience in the relevant industry. I found his testimony 
and report persuasive and sufficient for me to reach a conclusion on the quality of the goods. 
I also explained that I’d had regard to the CRA. I realise that Mr J complained outside of the 
first 30 days of delivery of the goods. So he was not able to exercise the short term right to 
reject. I’ve also considered that Creation would usually be given an opportunity to repair the 
goods before Mr J could reject them. But, importantly, repairs should be completed within a 
reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the consumer. In this particular 
case, that hasn’t happened. I don’t think Creation should now be given the opportunity to 
arrange a repair and it’s not clear that a repair would work. I therefore think, in all the 
circumstances, it’s fair and reasonable that Mr J be able to reject the goods and receive a 
full refund. 
Creation has said there is only a problem with the sofa, and not the whole order. But the 
order was bought as a set. I don’t think it’s fair or reasonable for Mr J to be required to keep 
the rest of the order when he’d be handing back the sofa. I think it’s fair that he now be given 
the opportunity to buy a new matching set should he wish to do so.  
Considering everything above, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN3312578
5
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited should:

End the agreement. 

Arrange to collect the sofa, chair and fabric repair kit from Mr J, at no cost to him. 

Refund Mr J all payments he made towards the agreement. 

Reimburse Mr J £40 for the inspection report. 

Interest should be added to the above amounts, at a rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date the payments were made (or the date of the report), to the date of 
settlement*. 

Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr J’s credit file. 

Pay Mr J £100 compensation. 
*If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much it’s taken off. It should also provide Mr J with 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3312578
