K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) refused a credit application 
from him. 
background
Mr P applied for credit to purchase an item through Creation. But they turned down his 
application. He’s concerned about why they did this as he’s been told his credit score is 
excellent and he’s also worried about how this refused application will impact on his wife’s 
credit score.
Creation said that Mr P hadn’t satisfied their internal credit scoring. They explained that the 
method they use for internal credit scoring is commercially sensitive so they couldn’t provide 
any further detail.
So Mr P referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator agreed with what Creation 
had said. She explained that she couldn’t insist they shared the information they used to 
assess Mr P’s application and she went on to tell him that the application would be recorded 
on both his and his wife’s credit file. But she explained that the way in which lenders 
approached this information would vary by lender. 
But Mr P was still concerned. He said that surely he had a right to know what information a 
finance company had used to form their opinion and he therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will frustrate Mr P but I agree with what the adjudicator has said. Please let me 
explain.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The information Creation used to form their own internal credit scoring is commercially 
sensitive and I can understand their reluctance to disclose it. In the wrong hands this 
information could lead to consumers being able to bypass the scrutiny their approval process 
provides. So, whilst I know it’s very frustrating, I can’t order Creation to disclose this 
information. But I’d expect them to be considering Mr P’s credit file and that’s information he 
can get access to himself. The three major UK credit companies he can contact are 
CallCredit, Equifax and Experian. 
But I don’t think Creation have done anything wrong here and it wouldn’t be reasonable to 
ask them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN3319668
2
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2018.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319668
