K822x
complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) allowed a fraudster to 
open an account in his name. He also complains about delay in the entry being removed 
from his credit file.
background 
In July 2017, Mr J found out that a fraudster had taken a loan out with Creation in his name. 
Mr J complained and in August, Creation removed the balance from the account and agreed 
to remove the entry from Mr J’s credit file.
Mr J would like to know how the fraudster was able to take out the loan. Mr J says this 
matter has caused him a great deal of worry and stress, which he would like to be 
compensated for.
Creation says the fraudster passed their application process. But once Mr J complained, 
they investigated the matter and cleared the account balance. Creation accepts Mr J has 
been put to inconvenience and that there was some delay in cleansing Mr J’s credit file. 
Creation offered Mr B £200 for distress and inconvenience and a further £30 for the cost of 
credit searches.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Creation’s offer was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr J disagrees with this view. He remains unhappy with the checks Creation performed and 
would like more compensation.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this has been a distressing time for Mr J and I don’t underestimate his strength 
of feeling about this matter. But from what I’ve seen, I think checks were carried out in line 
with Creation’s process when the loan was taken out. 
As our investigator has explained, we’re not the regulator. So we can’t make Creation 
change its systems or processes. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and we 
have no regulatory or disciplinary role. 
Mr J was told that the adverse information would be removed from his credit file in August 
2017, but the information was still there in October. I can see that this delay caused Mr J 
unnecessary, additional upset. 
I’ve taken into account the points raised by Mr J, but overall I think Creation’s offer of £200 
with £30 for the cost of credit file searches is fair and reasonable. So I won’t be asking them 
to pay anymore.
Ref: DRN3239826
2
my final decision
For the reasons given, I think the offer of £200 for inconvenience and £30 for the cost of 
credit file searches is fair and reasonable. I direct Creation Consumer Finance Limited to pay 
£230 to Mr J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2018.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239826
