K820x#10
summary of complaint
This complaint concerns a single-premium payment protection insurance (“PPI”) policy. The 
policy provides accident, sickness, unemployment and life cover in conjunction with a point-
of-sale loan of under £1,000, taken out in 2006 to pay for furniture. Miss C says that 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold the policy.
my findings
Before I address the underlying complaint, I understand that Miss C is currently being 
pursued for the debt by a third party recovery agent acting for the lender. If Miss C wishes to 
complain separately about the actions of the lender – or its agent – in this regard, she may 
do so, to the business initially, and then to us subsequently if need be. Here, however, I 
deal solely with the complaint about the sale of the PPI policy with the loan. The conclusions 
I have reached have no bearing on, and do not prejudice in any way, the potential outcome 
of any separate complaint Miss C might make about the debt recovery action.
I have considered afresh everything that Miss C and Creation Consumer Finance have said 
and provided from the outset, in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I have also taken into account relevant regulatory requirements, the law and 
good industry practice at the time the policy was sold.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence. That is the approach taken by the courts in civil cases.
It seems to me that the questions I need to consider in a case such as this are: 

firstly, whether Creation Consumer Finance gave Miss C information that was clear,
fair and not misleading, in order to put her in a position where she could make an
informed choice about the insurance she was buying;

secondly, whether in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation Consumer
Finance took adequate steps to ensure that the product it recommended was suitable
for Miss C’s needs.
DRN3144152
2
In the event I am persuaded to find in her favour of one or other of the above, I shall need 
also to consider whether Miss C acted to her detriment as a consequence of any 
shortcoming on Creation Consumer Finance’s part.
I think it likely that Creation Consumer Finance did not recommend Miss C buy the PPI, so it 
did not have to ensure it was suitable for her; that was for Miss C to determine for herself. 
That said, Creation Consumer Finance had a duty to ensure Miss C was adequately 
informed in order that she could make that decision.
Clearly, I cannot be certain how much Miss C understood about the policy at the time; there 
is some dispute about whether and when she was provided with all of the relevant 
point-of-sale documentation. Nevertheless, taking into account the policy benefits, the cost 
of cover, and the information Miss C has given us about her broader circumstances at the 
time of the sale, I am not persuaded I can safely conclude that if Miss C had been properly 
informed, she would have decided she had no need of the cover the policy provided. 
I say this firstly because it does not appear that Miss C was affected by any of the exclusions 
from, or limitations on, the cover provided by the policy, and she appears to have been 
eligible for the cover it provided. Secondly, whilst the information Miss C has provided about 
her employee benefits and savings suggest she may have been able to cope for a short 
period if anything went wrong, she was taking on a new liability. 
So, if the cost and level of cover provided by the policy was agreeable to her, I find it most 
likely that Miss C would have considered taking out the cover, rather than rely on relatives or 
risk eroding her savings to maintain the loan payments – the alternatives Miss C has 
suggested on the questionnaire she completed when she made the complaint to us.
There is some evidence to suggest that the cost was disclosed to Miss C at the time. The 
loan agreement she signed set out the premium amount and the total amount payable with 
the addition of interest, albeit not the interest itself, or the monthly amount payable 
specifically for the insurance. Nonetheless, whilst I cannot be certain, I do not consider I 
could safely conclude that Miss C was unaware of the policy cost, or that she found it 
unacceptable.
The policy came with restrictive cancellation terms – it provided a less than proportionate 
refund if the loan was repaid early, unless within an initial period that allowed all interest 
charges to be waived in full. This could be problematic if Miss C considered it possible that 
she would refinance or repay the loan after the interest-free period had passed but before 
the end of the scheduled policy term. 
However, Miss C’s circumstances at the time of the sale, and her submissions when making 
the complaint, do not suggest that this was something she was contemplating doing. Rather, 
it seems that her intention at the point of sale was to repay the finance, including the PPI 
element before the end of the interest-free period, but she apparently forgot to do so at the 
relevant time. So although I cannot be sure if Creation Consumer Finance met Miss C’s 
information needs in this regard, I am not persuaded she would most likely have acted any 
differently if it had. 
3
Miss C argues that she was not properly informed that the PPI was being added to the loan. 
Of course I cannot be entirely certain about what was or was not said during the sales 
process, so I accept it is possible her account of events is accurate. However, taking into 
account all of the available evidence (including the loan agreement completed at the time, 
which, although not specifically describing the PPI as “optional”, required Miss C to sign to 
accept it separately from the underlying finance for the furniture), I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss C was aware of, and consented to the PPI being added to her loan even 
though, with the passage of time, she no longer recalls having done so.
I note Miss C says that the version of the loan agreement she received did not bear her 
signature. That may be so, but the version in question bore the same information as the 
signature copy, which Miss does not appear to dispute having signed.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Miss C would most likely have acted differently had she 
been properly informed and fully understood the position.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that Miss C has suffered detriment as a 
result of any possible shortcomings on Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s part when it sold 
the PPI policy. It follows that I do not uphold Miss C’s complaint or make any award against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
