K821x#14
complaint
Mrs F complains she hasn’t been provided with a service she paid for after taking a loan 
from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
background
In April 2009 Mrs F bought a monitored alarm system for her home. She says she only 
agreed to the purchase because she was told the system would be monitored to protect her 
in the event of fire or burglary. This monitoring and maintenance was to last for ten years. 
Mrs F paid a total price of £4,850, including £100 as a deposit. The remaining £4,750 was 
covered by a loan provided by Creation.
In March 2011 the alarm system supplier went into liquidation, and was no longer able to 
carry out the monitoring and maintenance. 
Since then Mrs F has continued to make monthly payments in line with the loan agreement, 
but she complained to Creation. It responded saying the loan hadn’t been mis-sold, and that 
the monitoring and maintenance service was an additional free offer from the supplier, and 
not something she’d paid for. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs F asked this service to consider the complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended that Creation needed to sort matters out with Mrs F. In 
particular, he accepted that the monitoring and maintenance service was part of the original 
package she’d bought. As a result, he thought Creation could be held liable for the supplier’s 
failure to carry out the contract.
To put things right he suggested it should:-

Cancel the agreement and waive any outstanding amounts owed under it.

Refund the payments made by Mrs F since March 2011.

Pay interest at 8% simple on these refunds.

Make an additional payment of £250 in recognition of its own delays in handling the 
complaint.
Creation didn’t agree. It maintained its argument that the agreement Mrs F reached with the 
supplier was purely for the alarm and its installation, and that any other services didn’t form 
part of the agreement so it shouldn’t be held responsible.
 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached same conclusion as the adjudicator.
The promotional material provided to Mrs F when she bought the system clearly shows the 
monitoring and maintenance service was an important selling point. I’m satisfied that if the 
supplier hadn’t promised to provide this service as part of the agreement then Mrs F wouldn’t 
have made the purchase in the first place.
Ref: DRN3329123
2
As the supplier hasn’t been able to honour its contract with Mrs F, liability for this extends to 
Creation as the credit provider under the Consumer Credit Act.
The supplier only stopped being able to honour the contract in March 2011 and I’m satisfied 
Mrs F was able to enjoy the benefits of the agreement before then. So I think it’s fair that she 
covers the cost of the alarm system during that time. 
However, I don’t think she should be asked to pay the full amount she agreed with the 
supplier as she’s not now receiving everything she agreed to buy.
my final decision
My final decision is that to put things right I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:-

Terminate Mrs F’s agreement and waive any outstanding payments due.

Refund all the payments made by Mrs F from 24 April 2011 to date.

Refund £64.85 of the payment made by Mrs F on 24 March 2011.

Pay interest at 8% simple on the refunds from the date Mrs F made the payment to 
the date of settlement.

Remove any adverse information registered on Mrs F’s credit file after 3 March 2011 
in relation to this loan.

Make a payment of £250 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by the delay 
in dealing with this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F, or her 
representative, to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2015.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3329123
