K820x#14
complaint
Mr G’s unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has issued a default on his credit 
file. 
background
Mr G took out finance with Creation for an electronic item he purchased from an electronics 
store. He took advantage of a buy-now-pay-later promotion which meant he had to clear the 
outstanding finance in a one-off payment a year later. Mr G said he was unaware he’d 
entered into a credit agreement with Creation as the paperwork he received from the 
electronics store was unclear. Mr G also said he’s since settled the outstanding finance and 
wants Creation to remove the adverse information recorded against his credit file.
Creation said it sent Mr G a number of letters reminding him to settle the finance but it didn’t 
receive a response and so it issued a default against his credit file. 
Our investigator found that Creation hadn’t done anything wrong and so she concluded that 
it didn’t need to take any further action. But Mr G didn’t agree. In summary, he said;

At no point was it made clear to him that he’d entered into an agreement with 
Creation;

The default was issued unfairly and that it’s preventing him from buying a property. 
He’s also unhappy with how long it stays on his credit file

Creation and our investigator hasn’t taken into account relevant law, namely The 
Equality Act and the Civil Law’s – Mischief Rule.
And so it’s for me to make a final decision. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, I won’t be upholding 
this complaint. I say this for mainly the same reasons already given by our investigator, but 
I’d also like to add;

Mr G secured finance for the item in question in January 2016. The agreement he 
signed clearly shows the amount payable is over £1,000 and when it was due to be 
paid by. Mr G also provided his bank details and signed the agreement. To be clear, 
I’m satisfied the agreement shows that Creation is the finance provider as this is 
clearly titled at the very top and is included elsewhere within the agreement. Creation 
set up a direct debit in preparation to collect the payment in January of the following 
year, but Mr G cancelled this in July 2016. I take on board Mr G said he did this 
because he was unsure who Creation was, but I think it would have been reasonable 
to expect him to make the connection with Creation and the expensive item he’d 
recently signed a credit agreement for. I also think it reasonable to suggest that he 
could have perhaps got in touch with Creation, after seeing the direct debit it’d set up, 
to find out more about this. Because he didn’t do this, Creation was unable to collect 
payment for the item. 

Creation sent Mr G a number of letters, including one following the cancellation of his 
direct debit, and another when the promotion was about to expire. I note there were 
Ref: DRN3632078
2
also letters that let him know about the arrears after he’d missed the repayment date 
as well as default notices. All of which Mr G said he’d not received because he’d 
changed address. But Mr G didn’t tell Creation he’d moved and so I don’t think it’d be 
fair to hold it responsible for him not receiving those letters. Creation’s responsibility 
is to make reasonable efforts to contact customers and tell them about any changes 
that’ll affect them and their agreements. Mr G didn’t tell Creation his new address 
until May 2017, and this was after he’d defaulted on the agreement. Mr G had only 
been prompted to contact Creation as some of its letters had been forwarded on to 
him. 

I consider the steps Creation took to try and contact Mr G to be reasonable because 
it could only use the address it was previously given. I’m aware Mr G thinks this is 
unfair, in particular, he believes Creation should have attempted to email him. But 
there’s no obligation for Creation to do this. It attempted to contact Mr G by post and I 
think this is enough. It was still Mr G’s responsibility to ensure he paid for item he’d 
received as part of the promotional credit offer. I note Mr G also raised concerns 
about the length of time the default will stay on his credit file, but I should say this is 
not something that’s determined by this service. In any event, the credit file should be 
an accurate reflection of a consumer’s credit history. And so Creation is entitled to 
record adverse information on it because Mr G didn’t settle his credit arrangement in 
time.   

Mr G understood he’d received an expensive item on credit and that it was due to be 
repaid a year later in January 2017. Yet I’ve seen no evidence to suggest that Mr G 
attempted to find out what was going on, or perhaps why the payment hadn’t been 
taken until some five months after the expected repayment date. I understand Mr G’s 
point that he didn’t know who Creation was, but I think it’s reasonable to expect he 
would have taken steps to find out who he needed to pay when he realised the 
payment hadn’t been taken from his bank account at the time it was due. Had this 
happened, I think it’s likely he’d have discovered who Creation was sooner than he 
did. 

Mr G has asked that I consider the two laws mentioned above – which I have. But 
they don’t change my view on Mr G’s complaint. Mr G’s explained he’s been through 
a difficult time and I’m sorry to learn this. He went on to explain this has left him 
suffering with mental health problems and suggested Creation is in breach of the law 
by treating him the way it has, in particular, logging adverse information against his 
credit file. But I need to consider what Creation knew at the time he took the 
agreement out with it and I’ve not seen any evidence that persuades me that Mr G 
shared this information with Creation either at the beginning or throughout the time 
he was a consumer. And so I don’t think it’d be fair to hold Creation to a standard of 
behaviour when it had no idea that it needed to consider making adjustments to the 
way in contacted Mr G. 
 
In light of this, I find that Creation took reasonable steps to try and contact Mr G and to let 
him know the agreement needed paying. It also clearly outlined what would happen if it 
didn’t receive payment in the form of default letters. Further, it was Mr G’s responsibility to 
ensure he adhered to the terms he’d agreed prior and to make sure he’d kept Creation 
informed about his change of address. 
Ref: DRN3632078
3
my final decision
I don’t uphold Mr G’s complaint for the reasons I’ve explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2018.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3632078
