K821x#15
complaint
Mr S complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has made incorrect reports to a 
credit reference agency. He says Creation has mixed up his account with that of his twin 
brother, Mr H, and has incorrectly reported the arrears on Mr H’s account as being arrears 
on his account. Mr S says he has tried to get Creation to put things right but is being passed 
between members of its staff and is not being offered a solution.  
background
Mr S has a twin brother, Mr H. They have both had loans with Creation. Mr H’s loan went 
into arrears, due to a missed payment. In early 2018 Mr S looked at his credit report and 
noticed Creation had reported Mr H’s arrears as being his. He also noted that both Mr H and 
Mr H’s wife were linked to him on his credit report. 
After the complaint was referred to us, Creation wrote to us on 1 May 2018. In its 
submissions it said: 
We had an operational incident in which account holders with similar names and matching 
date of birth would appear as one account or would connect to the incorrect account if the 
person has had an account with Creation before.
However, the confusion was continuing at this point as Creation sent us a file for Mr H, not 
Mr S, which included copy of a final response it had sent to Mr H and screen prints of Mr H’s 
account. It said it had not issued a final response to Mr S’s complaint. But it had in fact 
issued a response to Mr S on 19 April 2018 which said:
Creation has now rectified the issue and has updated the information provided to the
Credit Reference Agencies. Please note that it may take up to 28 days for this update to be
reflected on your credit file.
In this response Creation had also offered Mr S £50 for any upset it had caused him. 
Creation made further submissions to us, again about Mr H rather than Mr S, on 18 June 
2018. 
On 28 November 2018 we told Creation that Mr S had let us know his report with the credit 
reference agency was still linking him to his twin brother, Mr H. In reply Creation sent some 
screen shots which it says show it told the credit reference agencies of its error in July 2018. 
Our investigator explained to Mr S that he did not think Creation needed to do anything else. 
He thought the £50 compensation it had paid was fair, and that it had shown it had taken 
corrective action. 
Mr S did not accept the investigator’s view. He said he thought a number of points had been 
overlooked. He said, in summary:

Creation did not notice the issue. It sent him several payment reminders (about the 
arrears) despite him telling it several times that he did not have any late payments. It 
refused to get to the bottom of the issue and only after several requests from him did 
it look at things in more detail. 
Ref: DRN3783928
2

The error was extremely serious. It has had huge implications on his credit file and 
resulted in a breach of confidential information.

He did not think £50 was sufficient compensation for this. 
Mr S also said he had been unable to apply for credit for a year, and that he thought two 
loan applications which had been refused were due to the incorrect report by Creation. 
We asked Creation for further information, in the light of Mr S’s reply. It said: 

One month of arrears was incorrectly reported. The credit files of him and Mr H have 
since been unlinked. 

Its records show Mr S was chased for arrears by letter in May 2018. It cannot see 
that any calls were made to Mr S about this. 
As Mr S says his credit report is still incorrect we’ve recently asked him to let us know what 
his credit report is currently showing. In reply he sent us some screen prints, which I 
considered in my provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision. The findings I made in that decision are copied 
below, and form part of this decision. In summary, my findings were:

Creation had continually conflated Mr S and Mr H, and had made incorrect reports 
about Mr S to the credit reference agencies. 

I thought it was fair and reasonable for Creation to pay compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by this. I thought £400 offered a fair reflection of the level of 
trouble and upset caused. 

I also thought it would also be fair and reasonable for Creation to now set out in a 
letter to the credit agencies what error it made, and what the true position of Mr S’s 
account is. It should also copy this to Mr S, so he can then take matters up with the 
credit reference agencies if his reports are still incorrect. 

I had not seen any evidence to show the financial associations Mr S referred to were 
the result of Creation’s error.
the responses to my provisional decision 
In response to my provisional decision Creation said: 

It does not agree it has not done enough to remove the error. The account which 
belongs to Mr H has now been set up on a separate account, which will fix the 
reporting problem. 

It made the credit reference agencies aware of the issue and also what needed to be 
done to fix it. 
Ref: DRN3783928
3

Mr S also had a live account with it where multiple direct debits failed. So, whilst it 
appreciates that having his brother’s account reported was not ideal, it does not 
believe this had a significant impact or caused further inconvenience. The one or two 
missed payments reported on the credit file before the amendment took place would 
not have had a significant impact on Mr S’s credit file due to a history of late 
payments on his own account. 
In the light of this reply, we asked Creation to provide some supporting evidence. It provided 
copies of emails it had sent to the credit reference agencies in June 2019, and a history of 
the payments on Mr S’s own account. 
In response to my provisional decision (and the reply of Creation) Mr S said: 

He has not missed a single payment as part of the loan from Creation. It is clear that 
the confusion between his account and that of his brother still exists. Creation called 
him on several occasions to chase for missed payments, in addition to sending 
emails. 

His latest credit report (he provided us with a full copy of this) clearly shows his 
brother’s Creations loan and other accounts. His brother and his brother’s wife are 
also still associated with him. He has recently fallen into arrears on his credit card 
payments because he has been denied short term credit that would have prevented 
this from happening.

Creation needs to take responsibility for this and pay the appropriate level of 
compensation for the credit reference agency mix up. He would like to see 
confirmation that Creation has informed the agencies and also proof that the 
agencies have made the necessary corrections.
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have carefully considered the further evidence provided by both parties. That evidence 
does provide some further information which gives the clarity which was lacking when I 
made my provisional decision. But I have not been persuaded to depart from the overall 
conclusion reached in my provisional decision. 
Mr S has provided a full print out of a recent credit report. That shows the report is still 
incorrect - Mr H’s Creation loan still being reported on Mr S’s credit file. But it also shows a 
number of other accounts of Mr H’s, which aren’t Creation accounts, being reported on 
Mr S’s credit file. So I think there is a wider problem with Mr S’s credit reporting – I do not 
think the reporting of his brother’s finances on his credit file is exclusively down to the 
problems Mr S has had with Creation.
Creation has also now provided evidence to show it did tell the credit reference agencies of 
the issue of Mr S’s and Mr H’s accounts becoming linked, and provide sufficient detail about 
the issue, by email in June 2019. So I do not think it needs to do anything else in relation to 
any incorrect reporting which relates to accounts held with it. I think any ongoing issues are 
either due to the credit references agencies not reacting to Creation’s June 2019 email or 
issues which have nothing to do with Creation. So Mr S’s credit reporting is something he 
now needs to take up with the credit reference agencies. Creation should provide Mr S with 
Ref: DRN3783928
4
any information he reasonably requires to help him with this, insofar as it relates to accounts 
held with it. 
I also acknowledge that there is now available evidence to show Mr S himself went into 
arrears on his account. Mr S says he does not think he has missed any payments on his 
own loan. But the evidence now available does not support this. The details of Mr S’s loan, 
as shown on his recent credit report, show a month where the balance did not fall. That 
reconciles with the details of the monthly payments shown on Mr S’s account history with 
Creation. There was a returned direct debit on the month the balance did not fall. And the 
loan concerned is not Mr H’s – the account number is that of Mr S’s loan and the amounts 
outstanding and the monthly payment amounts match that loan.
I agree that Mr S having missed payments means the incorrect reporting of Mr H’s arrears 
on Mr S’s credit file may have had less impact than it would have otherwise. However, I think 
the incorrect reporting may still have had an impact, and the error has clearly caused Mr S 
trouble and upset nonetheless. 
I also remain of the view Creation took too long to take corrective action. And that it has not 
handled matters well. It conflated Mr S and Mr H whilst we were investigating Mr S’s 
complaint. And it was not until I issued my provisional decision that Creation provided 
information that was obviously important to this complaint - for example clear evidence that it 
had told the credit reference agencies of the issue in June 2019. 
I think all of this has caused Mr S considerable trouble and upset. So I remain of the view 
that it is fair and reasonable to ask Creation to pay Mr S £400 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused. I do not however think it now needs to do anything else. I can appreciate 
Mr S’s frustration with the incorrect information currently showing on his credit report – but I 
have not seen sufficient evidence to show that is something which is the fault of Creation. It 
has taken action to correct its error and, as mentioned, the issues clearly go beyond any 
previous incorrect reporting by Creation. So any current incorrect reporting is something Mr 
S will need to take up with the credit reference agencies concerned. 
my final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay 
Mr S £400 compensation for the trouble and upset it has caused, and should comply with 
any reasonable requests for information Mr S might make in relation to its reporting to credit 
reference agencies. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3783928
5
copy provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
It is not clear whether Mr S’s credit report is now correct. Mr S has recently provided us with some 
screen prints from a mobile app or website, which show some partially redacted entries from part of a 
credit report. These screenshots do not include the full detail of the entries contained on the report, so 
I cannot tell if there is incorrect reporting based on Creation’s original error (i.e. the reporting of 
arrears on Mr H’s account as being Mr S’s arrears in early 2018). 
It is also not clear whether Creation has taken steps to ensure the credit reference agencies are 
aware of its error, and the true position with Mr S’s account with it. It has sent two screen prints which 
it says show it told the credit reference agencies of its error. The two screen prints do suggest action 
has been taken to amend reports made to credit reference agencies, but they do not show this action 
has been taken on Mr S’s account. They don’t contain any account name or reference, and the title of 
the email to which the screen print has been attached refers to Mr H, not Mr S, suggesting the 
conflation of the two may have continued. 
So I don’t know for certain if Mr S’s credit report is still incorrect and, if it is, whether that is the fault of 
Creation for not telling the credit reference agencies of its error, or of the credit reference agency Mr S 
is using, for not acting on Creation’s correction. 
What is however clear is that Creation has made an error, and it has not dealt with the correction of 
that error very well at all. Even if the screen prints it has provided do relate to corrective action taken 
on Mr S’s credit report it took at least six months following the error for that corrective action to be 
taken (despite Creation having told Mr S in April 2018 such action had been taken). So Mr S had 
arrears incorrectly showing on his credit report for a long period of time. Creation has also continued 
to conflate Mr S and Mr H, compounding its original error. And it seems it has chased Mr S for 
payment of the arrears belonging to Mr H. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Creation to pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
all of this. I think an amount significantly higher than the £50 it has offered is fair, in the 
circumstances. I think £400 offers a fairer reflection of the level of trouble and upset caused. So 
Creation should pay that amount to Mr S.  
And, given the ongoing uncertainty, to ensure adequate corrective action has been taken, I think it 
would also be fair and reasonable for Creation to now set out in a letter to the credit agencies what 
error it made, and what the true position of Mr S’s account is. It should also copy this letter to Mr S, so 
he can then take matters up with the credit reference agencies if his reports are still incorrect. 
Mr S has mentioned two other things in his complaint. That the financial associations section of his 
credit report shows links to Mr H and Mr H’s wife. And that he was unable to get approval for loans 
because of Creation’s error. 
I have not seen any evidence to show the associations Mr S refers to were the result of Creation’s 
error. The screen prints Mr S has provided show the source of the association in each case (i.e. which 
business has reported data which has led to the association being made). None of these associations 
mention Creation. So I do not think they have come about as a result of its error. If Mr S thinks these 
associations are incorrect, he’ll need to take that up with the credit reference agency in question, or 
the businesses which have reported the data used to make the associations. 
I can appreciate why Mr S feels the incorrect reporting of arrears led to him not being approved for 
two loans. However, lenders take into account many factors when making decisions and I have not 
seen sufficient evidence to show that it was the incorrectly reported arrears were the only reason why 
he was not approved for the loans. And, in any event, I’ve not seen sufficient evidence to show Mr S 
has suffered a loss as a result of not being able to get the loans. 
Ref: DRN3783928
6
So I don’t think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to do anything in relation to Mr S’s 
declined loan tor the financial associations on his credit report. It should only pay the compensation 
suggested and send the letter described.
Ref: DRN3783928
