K821x#12
summary of complaint
Mrs R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘CCF’) mis-sold her a Payment 
Protection Insurance (“PPI”) policy in connection with the purchase of a sofa in 2005.
my findings
Our general approach to considering complaints about the mis-sale of PPI is well-documented 
and is set out in our online PPI Technical Resource. In deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of this case, I have considered the issues in accordance with this 
general approach. This includes taking into account the law, good industry practice and any 
regulatory rules and guidance relevant to this complaint at the time the policies were sold. 
The key issues I need to consider in this complaint are:

whether CCF gave Mrs R information that was clear, fair, not misleading and sufficient 
to put her in a position to make an informed choice about whether to purchase the PPI 
policy; and

whether in giving any advice or recommendation, CCF took adequate steps to ensure 
that the PPI policy was suitable for Mrs R’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which CCF sold the policy, I then need to consider 
whether Mrs R is worse off as a result. That is, would Mrs R be in a different position now if 
there had not been any shortcomings?
Mrs R has asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to review the sale of a PPI policy sold to 
her alongside a sofa purchase in 2005. Mrs R has told us that she went to purchase a sofa, 
intending to pay out-right for it, but was then told about a one year, interest free loan offer. 
She decided to take advantage of that offer, and the PPI was sold to her at the same time. 
She does not remember any discussion about the PPI.
CCF has told us that this was an information only sale. As Mrs R has told us that she does not 
remember any discussion of the PPI, and in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, 
I shall consider this as an information only sale. This means that CCF only had to ensure that 
all the relevant information about the policy was provided in a clear and balanced way in order 
to enable Mrs R to make a decision on whether to buy the policy or not.
Because the sale took place in a meeting, there is no record of what was said, so I can only 
make my decision based on the evidence provided to me by the two parties and by deciding 
what is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.
I would normally consider whether Mrs R was aware that the policy was optional and whether 
it was suitable for her circumstances. However, having reviewed all of the information 
available to me, I intend to uphold Mrs R’s complaint for the following reasons:
I am mindful of Mrs R’s testimony that she was persuaded by the salesman to take the 
‘one year free’ deal, having originally intended to pay directly for the sofa. Although Mrs R’s 
recollections may not be entirely accurate given the time that has elapsed, I am persuaded 
that the sale focus was upon the interest free deal, and that the PPI was a very secondary 
issue for Mrs R, sold to her as an ancillary ‘benefit’ alongside her purchase.
Ref: DRN3202750
2
CCF has said that Mrs R would have been given a copy of the key facts policy summary and 
statement of price to inform her of what she was buying. I note that the statement of price 
does indicate the full price of the PPI, including the interest payable for it. However, as her 
prime aim was to purchase a sofa, Mrs R may not have been especially engaged with the 
process of selling her an insurance product, particularly as her intention was to pay for the 
sofa at the end of the deal period and before the full costs of the loan and policy were 
activated. I think that Mrs R would have done what she felt was required to secure the sofa on 
favourable terms, and that her interest in an apparently ancillary product would have been 
minimal. As there was no requirement upon Mrs R to sign the document to confirm either her 
understanding or acceptance of the contents, I cannot be certain that she either received or 
read it. 
Turning to the credit agreement which was signed by Mrs R, I see that it gave the price of the 
PPI premium, but it did not show how much interest would be charged for the PPI over the 
duration of the loan. The interest on the PPI was rolled up with the interest on the loan itself. 
While I cannot know what was said to Mrs R during the meeting, I consider it would have been 
very difficult for Mrs R to work out the impact that the PPI was having on her total borrowing at 
the point when she signed the legally binding credit agreement. I am not persuaded that Mrs 
R would have agreed to purchase the policy had she realised that it was costing her around 
two thirds as much as the sofa that she wished to purchase.
I further note that the credit agreement had three large crosses marked where Mrs R was 
required to sign, including to accept the PPI. While it is entirely possible that the salesman 
took time and trouble to explain the PPI and its limitations and restrictions to Mrs R, I consider 
it equally plausible that Mrs R was simply told where to sign as the salesman went swiftly 
through the paperwork.
If Mrs R chose to cancel the policy early, she would not have received a proportionate refund 
of the purchase price. Given Mrs R’s stated intention to pay off the loan at the end of the offer 
period, I consider that this information would have influenced her view of the benefits of taking 
the policy. Were she to delay paying off the loan by even a few days beyond the end of the 
offer, she would have been penalised. I consider this to be a significant feature of the policy 
and one which should have been highlighted in order that Mrs R could make an informed 
decision about whether she wished to purchase the policy. As an ‘information only’ sale there 
was a reasonable expectation that Mrs R would read what was given to her in order to decide 
whether the product was suitable for her needs. However, even in an ‘information only’ sale, 
CCF still had an obligation to draw key issues about the policy to Mrs R’s attention in a way 
that she could understand. I do not consider that the policy summary was sufficient in this 
regard, and I have seen no evidence that CCF’s salesman drew this to Mrs R’s attention. 
While the full policy document, provided after the sale, gave more comprehensive information, 
good industry practice has long indicated that key issues should be brought to the attention of 
the customer before the sale is concluded, not just in paperwork after the event.
For the reasons given above, I am persuaded that CCF did not fully inform Mrs R about key 
issues before she purchased the policy. I must therefore decide whether she would have 
acted differently had she received the missing information before agreeing to purchase the 
policy.
Having considered all the evidence available to me, and mindful of Mrs R’s testimony, I am, 
on balance, persuaded that she would not have purchased the policy if the key issues, 
including the cost, had been made clearer to her. I say this because Mrs R had been 
intending to buy the sofa outright, but delayed doing so in order to secure a beneficial offer. 
Ref: DRN3202750
3
Had she known the real consequences of purchasing the policy, I am not persuaded that she 
would have decided that the policy represented value for money.
In summary, I am satisfied that Mrs R was not given sufficient clear and transparent 
information about the policy in order to make an informed decision. I consider that had CCF 
met its duties in this regard, Mrs R would not have chosen to buy the policy. It therefore 
follows that I uphold Mrs R’s complaint.
redress
I consider that the appropriate approach to fair compensation in this case is to require CCF to 
compensate Mrs R by putting her (so far as is now practicable) in the position she would have 
been in, had she not taken out the policy. I understand that the loan was paid off early and the 
PPI was cancelled.
In this case CCF should:
(A)
work out and repay the extra payment paid by Mrs R to settle the loan 
because PPI was added to it at the start by:

calculating the amount Mrs R would have paid to settle the loan if she had taken it 
out without PPI (including any interest and charges, such as a penalty for early 
repayment)

subtracting that amount from what was actually needed to settle the loan and 
paying her the difference

adding interest (simple, not compound) on the difference between the two amounts, 
at the rate of 8% a year from the date the loan was settled to the date the redress is 
paid†.
(B)
work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs R while the loan and PPI 
policy were active by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs R had taken out 
the loan without PPI

subtracting those payments from the amount Mrs R actually paid and paying her 
the difference

paying Mrs R interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is 
paid†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mrs R when the policy was 
cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
(C)
write to Mrs R to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A) and (B).
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation in Mrs R’s hands will depend on whether CCF has deducted basic rate tax from 
the compensation and Mrs R’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax 
position can be found on our website. CCF or Mrs R should contact HM Revenue and 
Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
Ref: DRN3202750
4
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I am satisfied that this complaint should be upheld. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay redress to Mrs R as detailed above. I make 
no further award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Roxy Boyce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3202750
