K821x#15
complaint
Miss C complains about fees applied to her account by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd and 
about the way it’s dealt with her complaint.
background
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:

Miss C’s account has been in and out of collections since June 2008. During this time 
a number of late and over limit charges have been incurred. At least seven 
repayment plans were also agreed but they all failed at some point. This is an 
indication that Miss C is likely to have been struggling financially.  

Even so Creation continued to apply interest and charges which increased the debt 
and it didn’t take any action until November 2012. In this case Creation should’ve 
stepped in sooner preventing the debt from increasing due to more interest and 
charges being added. By April 2011 Miss C’s payments were for less than the 
interest that was being added. It should’ve taken steps then to default the account 
and suspend interest and charges. 

Creation says the repayment arrangements weren’t for financial difficulties and were 
temporary. If Miss C had said she was in financial difficulty it would’ve reacted 
sooner. But given the conduct of the account it wasn’t positive or sympathetic of 
Creation to wait for Miss C to say she’d difficulties before it took action. Creation’s 
acknowledged there may’ve been warning signs Miss C was in difficulties but it didn’t 
attempt to establish if there were financial difficulties or not. It wasn’t fair or 
reasonable to allow the account to continue as it had been. 

So, the interest and charges from April 2011 to November 2012 (when the account 
was sold to a third party and interest was suspended) should be refunded. The 
default should also be backdated to April 2011.
Creation doesn’t agree with the proposed resolution. It says in summary that there may have 
been warning signs Miss C was struggling but they are easier to see in retrospect. It isn’t 
clear if she was struggling financially or just wasn’t managing the account well. It doesn’t 
agree to refund interest from April 2011. 
But its most recently offered to refund interest for the period from June to December 2011 
totalling £208.37 plus some excess charges plus interest of £254.22. This is in addition to 
the £206.02 account balance it says it’s already cleared as a gesture of goodwill. Creation 
says it can’t backdate the default. Its system won’t allow this.
Miss C has said she wants the default of 1 April 2013 backdated as it’s causing her 
problems. She’s asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN3949432
2
I agree with the adjudicator’s conclusions for the same reasons.
As Creation’s acknowledged there were warning signs that Miss C might have been in 
financial difficulty. I agree with the adjudicator that given the account history it would’ve been 
reasonable for it to have reached the conclusion that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties – at very latest - by April 2011. And by that time I think it should’ve asked more 
questions and done more to assist Miss C. 
Taking everything into account I think the adjudicator’s proposed resolution of this compliant 
is fair and reasonable. And I don’t see any reason to change the proposed outcome in this 
case except that I think interest should also be paid on any interest or charges Miss C has 
actually paid in the period April 2011 to December 2012. I also note Creation says it may 
have already refunded or written off some interest and charges when it wrote off the account 
balance. 
Creation says its system won’t allow it to amend Miss C’s credit file to back date the default 
to April 2011. Even so, I think it will have to find a way to do this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, if it hasn’t done so 
already:
1.
To refund all interest and charges from April 2011 to November 2012 plus pay simple 
interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date each such sum was paid until the date 
of settlement; and 
2.
To amend Miss C’s credit file by backdating the default it’s entered on it to April 2011.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2016.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3949432
