K822x
complaint
Mrs G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background 
In 2014 Mrs G entered into an agreement with a company called ‘i-Power Systems’ for the 
supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The system cost £8,995 and was paid for 
with a loan taken from Creation over a 10-year period.
Mrs G says she was sold the system on the basis that the financial benefits it generated 
would cover the cost of repaying the loan – essentially making it self-funding.  But the 
system hasn’t performed to the level Mrs G was expecting and so she says it was 
misrepresented to her and the loan is unaffordable.
i-Power Systems is no longer trading, but under s.75 a finance provider can be held 
responsible for misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same extent as the 
supplier of goods.  So, Mrs G made a claim to Creation.
Creation made Mrs G an offer to put things right, but she didn’t accept it and referred her 
concerns to this Service.  In addition to the cost of the system, Mrs G explained that the 
solar panels created a need for maintenance due to birds nesting, and said i-Power had 
agreed to arrange for the removal and reinstatement of the solar panels if repairs or 
replacement of roof tiles were needed.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended Mrs G’s complaint be 
upheld.  She explained why she felt Creation’s offer to make the system self-funding was 
fair, but she was also persuaded Mrs G had been told by i-Power that the panels could be 
removed and replaced if work was needed on her roof.  So, the investigator said Creation 
should honour that representation.
Creation disagreed with the investigator.  It said there was no documented evidence to 
suggest that i-Power had agreed to remove and replace the system for work to be under 
taken to Mrs G’s roof – and so it should be liable for that.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed for and ombudsman to 
review and make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
In order for Mrs G to make a s.75 claim against Creation there must be an appropriate 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.  Having reviewed everything I’m satisfied that 
relationship exists and Creation hasn’t disputed this point, so I won’t expand further here.
There are several aspects to Mrs G’s complaint and so I’ll refer to each point in turn.
Making the system self-funding
Ref: DRN3543944
2
Mrs G says she was told by i-Power that the financial benefits of the system would cover the 
cost of servicing the loan with Creation.  I note that Creation initially highlighted the 
documentation from the time of sale referred to the benefits to be provided by the system as 
an estimate, and not guaranteed.  
From what Mrs G has explained, and what I know was typically described as the benefits of 
solar panel systems at the time, I’m satisfied it was likely Mrs G was told the system would 
be self-funding.  This is supported by the estimates she was given, and I’m sure that benefit 
was a major inducement in her making the purchase.
Creation made an offer based upon what it considers will put Mrs G into the position she 
would be in had the system’s benefits covered its costs.  I consider that a fair and 
reasonable approach to take – and so the key issue for me to decide is whether the offer 
calculation itself is appropriate.
The purchase price of the solar panel system was £8,995, and with interest Mrs G would 
have paid £14,162.40 over the 10-year loan term.  Creation calculated over that same 10 
years the system would provide financial benefits of £5,567.36 – based upon the 
recommendations of an industry expert.  As a result, it’s offer provided several options to 
ensure Mrs G would not pay more than £5,567.36 for the system.
The four options provided Mrs G with the opportunity to choose whether to receive a refund 
for overpayments she’d made (with interest) or reduce the loan payment amounts and term 
moving forwards.  I’m satisfied this approach is fair and reasonable, but I note the 
calculations may now need to be refreshed to make them up to date.
I’m aware part of Mrs G’s complaint is also that the loan itself is unaffordable.  But by 
offering to refund her the overpayments or restructuring the loan, I’m satisfied Creation will 
have addressed this issue.
Credit file
Mrs G is concerned that her credit file has been affected by the loan and the impact of 
finding payments unaffordable.  But Creation has confirmed it will adjust her credit file to 
remove any adverse entries caused in relation to the loan.  I think that is appropriate.
Roof maintenance 
Mrs G has explained she has experienced birds nesting under the solar panels which has 
caused mess and noise on her roof, and she believes may have caused some roof tiles to 
move.
I understand why this would be of frustration and concern to Mrs G, but I don’t think it’s 
something I can reasonably hold Creation responsible for.  The agreement with i-Power 
doesn’t include any service agreement for maintenance, and it’s not something I’ve seen 
provided in similar cases.
But I note Mrs G is also concerned that i-Power is no longer trading.  She says that when 
she bought the system, she was advised i-Power would arrange for the removal and 
reinstallation of panels in the event remedial or replacement work was required to her roof.
Ref: DRN3543944
3
Creation says it isn’t responsible for this and I understand there is nothing to address that 
situation in the agreement from the time of sale. But Mrs G is adamant that is what she was 
told and so I’ve considered the point carefully.
I believe it is something Mrs G would have been likely to ask before agreeing to have the 
panels installed on her roof – and I’ve seen nothing to make me question her recollection.  
Given that i-Power was trying to make a sale, overall, I think it’s likely it would have agreed 
to arrange for the removal and reinstallation of the panels for roof work if needed.  
Particularly given that the likelihood of Mrs G actually needing work done to the roof would 
be minimal.
I’m persuaded it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to be responsible for the removal and 
reinstatement of the panels in the event Mrs G needs to arrange remedial work to her roof.  
But I don’t think it’s reasonable for that to be an indefinite obligation. I consider an 
appropriate time period would be until 2024 when the panels would have been installed for 
10 years (and in line with the loan term).
Trouble and upset
In it’s offer to Mrs G, Creation included a sum of £100 for the trouble and upset she’s 
experienced as a result of it not resolving her s.75 claim at an earlier opportunity.  I’m 
satisfied this sum is fair and in line with what I would recommend in such circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs G’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
To put things right I’m satisfied the offer (with options) it has provided to Mrs G is reasonable 
– along with £100 payment for trouble and upset.  But I also consider Creation should 
indemnify Mrs G for the removal and reinstallation of the solar panels in the event it’s 
required for remedial work to her roof (as described above).
If Mrs G accepts my decision, I leave it for her to let Creation know which of the options it 
has provided she would like it to arrange in order to resolve matters.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543944
