K822x
complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the outcome of her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the ‘Act’) for some mis-sold solar panels financed by Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited.
background 
Mrs B bought some solar panels from a supplier, A, which has since gone out of business. 
She took out a loan for about £7,500 from Creation to pay for them and this was repayable 
over 10 years.
Mrs B was told by A’s salesman that she’d benefit from income of about £45,000 over 20 
years and this would more than repay the loan and the interest on it. But these 
representations were untrue. Creation accepts that the estimated income was 
misrepresented to Mrs B. And it has made an offer to compensate her for the loss it thinks 
she’s suffered through buying the panels and taking out finance that she thought would be 
self-funding.
Creation has offered to refund Mrs B the difference between what she has paid and what it 
estimates she would have paid if the loan had been self-funding. When this was calculated a 
few months back, the difference was about £850, and Creation also offered to pay interest 
on that at our usual rate of 8% simple a year from the date Mrs B had made her payments 
until when she was refunded. It also offered Mrs B £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to her.
At the time the interest was about £330 giving a total refund of £1,180 odd plus the £100 
compensation. The sum offered takes into account that Mrs B repaid the loan out of savings 
within a year of taking it out in order to reduce the interest that she would otherwise have 
had to pay on it.
Our investigator thought this was fair compensation for the loss Mrs B had suffered and he 
recommended Creation’s offer to her.
Mrs B didn’t accept the offer. 
She’s said that she’d never have bought the panels if she’d known that they wouldn’t make 
£45,000 over 20 years. The solar panels couldn’t possibly produce that level of benefit. And 
she certainly wouldn’t be using all the electricity generated as the estimate predicted. She’d 
like the panels removed, for her roof to be reinstated and for the purchase price to be 
refunded. She’d also like compensation for the loss of the benefits that she’d been promised.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m sorry to disappoint Mrs B but I won’t be asking Creation to do any more than it has 
already offered. I’ll explain why.
Ref: DRN3454479
2
I accept that A’s salesman made some very inflated statements about the benefit that Mrs B 
might receive from the solar panels. Given the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments due, the 
exported electricity rates and the electricity that Mrs B would have been able to use in 
daylight hours herself, the panels could never have produced that level of benefit.
I also accept that these sales tactics more likely than not helped persuade Mrs B to enter 
into the purchase contract and to take out the finance. Although Mrs B doesn’t appear to 
have been immediately unhappy with her purchase. Electricity was being generated and FIT 
payments were being received. What Mrs B did, however, appear to have realised, was that 
the interest payments on her loan were quite significant. So, within the year, she paid this off 
from savings.
It was then about two years after that when Mrs B complained to Creation. She was unhappy 
that she may not receive the benefit of the 10-year repair guarantee that she’d been 
promised when the panels were purchased. And she was also unhappy about A’s 
misrepresentations to her of the financial benefits of the panels.
Creation told Mrs B that, regarding the guarantee, this was insurance backed and she could 
go to the insurer if she needed to make a claim. Alternatively, she could come to Creation 
and raise a claim under its insurance. I’m not aware that there has yet been any need to 
claim and so I consider this to have been a fair and reasonable response by Creation.
Regarding the financial loss, Mrs B wants the panels removed, her roof reinstated and 
compensation for the lost benefits she was promised. I should start by saying that 
compensation in cases like these is not an exact science. I must determine what I think is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Mrs B doesn’t appear to have had any problems with the panels, they just haven’t made as 
much money as she expected. I sympathise with her, as this must have been very 
frustrating. And I do consider that A acted very poorly in making these false representations 
in order to sell the panels. That may well have contributed to it now no longer being in 
business. But Mrs B is receiving a financial benefit from the panels and it does appear that 
they will ultimately pay for themselves, except that this will take longer than she’d expected.
Mrs B has paid off the finance so her loss in terms of interest on the loan has been cut 
significantly. I’ve looked at Creation’s offer and this compensates Mrs B for the time that the 
loan would have been outstanding had she continued with it. In that regard, she would have 
paid just over £12,000 in interest and principal loan repayments over a 10-year period.
In fact, Mrs B ended up paying £8,150 to settle the loan early, including the interest she’d 
paid. If the loan hadn’t been self-funding over the entire 10-year period and she’d kept the 
loan going, she would have ended up paying over £4,000 more in principal and interest 
payments than she would have received from the panels. So that’s why Creation has now 
offered to pay her £850, as she mitigated her loss by paying back the loan early and saving 
herself the next 9 years’ interest.
In compensation for Mrs B being out of pocket, Creation has also offered to pay her 8% 
simple interest a year on the £850 and that comes to about £330. It’s also offered to pay her 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset she’s undoubtedly been caused
I think this offer amounts to fair compensation. Mrs B will continue to benefit from the FIT 
payments and the electricity generated by the panels. And she still has the benefit of the 10-
Ref: DRN3454479
3
year guarantee, which Creation has said it will honour if the insurance backer were to no 
longer be available to pay.
The misrepresented financial benefits of £45,000 are not something that I think Creation 
needs to compensate Mrs B for. The financial benefits of solar panels are only ever an 
estimate. And I can’t say it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Creation to 
compensate Mrs B for the loss of something that she could never have received. That’s not 
what Section 75 of the Act provides for. The loss that she’s suffered is the difference 
between what she’s actually paid out and what she could have expected to receive from the 
panels over the 10-year period that the loan was due to run for. After that time, she should 
still be making money from the panels.
I also don’t consider that it would be proportionate in the circumstances of this case for me to 
require that Creation remove the panels, reinstate Mrs B’s roof and refund the purchase 
price. If I were to do that, I would also have to ask that Mrs B repay the benefits that she had 
received from the panels over the last 5 years. That would reduce any refund that she might 
get quite significantly and would also remove the opportunity for her to make further savings 
from the panels over the coming years. So, all in all, I think the offer made by Creation is a 
fair one.
my final decision
It’s my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I consider that the offer made by Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited amounts to fair compensation. I require that Creation update the 
calculations for the offer and interest to the date of payment and that it pay Mrs B the sum 
due in accordance with the terms of the offer I’ve outlined above. It must also pay Mrs B 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset that she’s been caused.
Creation is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest that it 
pays. Should Mrs B request it, Creation must provide her with a statement of the interest 
deducted so that she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3454479
