K821x#12
complaint
Mr V complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold him a single 
premium Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) policy when he took out an unsecured loan 
in June 2008. He complained that he was led to believe that it was necessary to take the 
insurance to be approved for the loan.
background
In my provisional decision, dated October 2013, I set out why I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I explained that I had carefully considered all of the available evidence and 
arguments from the outset, in order to decide what was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I had also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time the policy was sold.
Within that decision I said:

The sale was conducted on an information-only basis and therefore Creation did not 
need to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr V’s needs – that was essentially a decision 
he needed to make for himself.

In the absence of any other persuasive evidence, I would use the call script provided by 
Creation to give me an indication of the way the call was likely to have been structured.

Although the script described the PPI as an option, this formed part of a sentence where 
Mr V had been told he was eligible for the cover. I considered that this presented a risk 
that, unless Mr V had been listening very carefully, he would not have appreciated the 
use of the word “option” implied that taking the cover was optional but would more likely 
have considered it to describe a feature of the lending.

Although the script suggested that Mr V should have been provided with a monthly 
repayment quotation both with and without PPI, I concluded there was a possibility that 
Mr V might not have realised that this indicated he didn’t need to take the cover – 
I thought he was at least as likely to have considered this as just showing him how much 
of his monthly payment was due to the PPI.

Since the costs of the insurance were pre-populated into the credit agreement signed by 
Mr V, and combined with the main loan, it may not have been apparent that the policy 
was separate to the lending. 

Since the agreement appeared to have been marked with arrows, I assumed by 
Creation, before it was sent to Mr V, to show him where to sign and tick, I thought it 
unlikely to have corrected any failure in the description of the PPI during the telephone 
call. 

The “Statement of Demands and Needs” that Creation said would have been sent to 
Mr V is in small type and appeared to be appended to a policy summary document. 
Ref: DRN3500645
2
I therefore concluded that it could easily have been overlooked by all but the most 
careful of readers. For that reason, although the final line of the statement read, “It is not 
a requirement of your credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that you 
purchase Creditcover” I was not persuaded that this would have corrected any earlier 
failures in the oral disclosure either.

I also thought that Creation failed to make Mr V sufficiently aware of the costs of the 
policy when he agreed to purchase it. The information on the call script was limited, 
and although Creation said further information would have been provided to Mr V in the 
written documentation he was sent following the call, as I had noted earlier, this 
information might not have been readily seen by Mr V.

So, in summary, I concluded that there was a strong possibility that Creation had failed 
to make Mr V aware that taking the insurance was optional and not a condition of the 
lending. I also concluded that it was likely that, if Creation had made Mr V fully aware of 
how much interest he would be paying on his insurance premium, and the additional cost 
this added to his monthly repayment, he would not have proceeded with the insurance, 
and so he had suffered detriment as a result of Creation’s failings.
I asked both parties to let me have their final submissions by November 2013.
Neither Creation nor Mr V have told us that they have anything further to add regarding this 
complaint.
my findings
I have once more carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments, in order 
to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given neither 
party has provided any new or persuasive evidence, I find no reason to alter my provisional 
decision. 
It follows therefore that I uphold Mr V’s complaint and direct Creation to pay him fair 
compensation as detailed in my provisional decision and repeated below for clarity.
Ref: DRN3500645
3
fair compensation
From the evidence I have seen, I think it likely that Mr V would have proceeded with the loan 
if he hadn’t taken the PPI. It is my understanding that the loan and insurance have now 
ended. Therefore in order to place him back in the situation he would have been in, Creation 
should;
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr V because PPI was added to 
the loan by:


calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr V had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr V actually paid and paying him the 
difference; and

paying Mr V interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B. Write to Mr V to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr V needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr V should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr V’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay him fair compensation as detailed above. 
I make no other award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3500645
