complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd did not provide him with annual 
statements for his loan after the first year. He says when he asked for statements showing he 
had repaid his loan in full he was provided with inadequate information.
our initial conclusions
The adjudicator said that she had not been provided any evidence to show that Mr B had been 
sent annual statements for his loan after 2010. She said that Creation should’ve ensured that 
the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) had been complied with and recommended it refund Mr B all 
interest paid after 2010 and pay him £50 compensation.
Creation couldn’t evidence that annual statements had been sent to Mr B but said it had no 
reason to believe they hadn’t. It said Mr B contacted it about his loan at various times and it 
provided him with the information available. It accepted paying £50 for the inconvenience 
caused but did not accept that the interest should be refunded.
my final decision
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Mr B received his 2009-2010 annual statement from 
Creation. Creation has not been able to provide evidence that any further annual statements 
were sent. Because I have no evidence of annual statement being sent after December 2010, I 
find it reasonable to uphold Mr B’s comments that the CCA was not complied with. Under 
section 77A (6) of the CCA, interest cannot be charged for any period of non-compliance. Mr B 
has also said the information he was provided with when he requested a statement was not 
sufficient. 
On balance, I accept that Mr B was not provided with the information he should have been and 
that this caused him inconvenience and upset. Based on this I find the recommendation of £50 
compensation reasonable.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, as set out more fully overleaf.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2016.
Jane Archer
ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service
Ref: DRN3457803
The ombudsman may complete this section where appropriate – adding comments or further 
explanations of particular relevance to the case. 
ombudsman notes 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In settlement of this complaint, I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

refund Mr B interest charged on his loan for the period for which no evidence of annual 
statements has been provided (the statement issued covered the period of 14 
December 2009 to 13 December 2010 with the last payment recorded as 24 November 
2010). This refund is subject to simple interest at 8% from the payment date to the date 
of settlement; and

pay Mr B £50 compensation.
what is a final decision?

A final decision by an ombudsman is our last word on a complaint. We send the final 
decision at the same time to both sides – the consumer and the financial business.  

Our complaints process involves various stages. It gives both parties to the complaint the 
opportunity to tell us their side of the story, provide further information, and disagree with 
our earlier findings – before the ombudsman reviews the case and makes a final decision. 

A final decision is the end of our complaints process. This means the ombudsman will not 
be able to deal with any further correspondence about the merits of the complaint. 
what happens next? 

A final decision only becomes legally binding on the financial business if the consumer 
accepts it. To do this, the consumer should sign and date the acceptance card we send 
with the final decision – and return it to us before the date set out in the decision. 

If the consumer accepts a final decision before the date set out in the decision we will tell 
the financial business – it will then have to comply promptly with any instructions set out by 
the ombudsman in the decision. 

If the consumer does not accept a final decision before the date set out in the decision, 
neither side will be legally bound by it.
Ref: DRN3457803
