K821x#12
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium policy which provided life, hospitalisation and 
personal accident cover. The policy was sold by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd in 
connection with a loan Mrs D took out (to buy a sofa) in March 2006. Mrs D says this was 
mis-sold because she was not provided with any information about the policy and it would 
not have been of benefit to her because of a previous illness.
my findings
I have carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have also taken into 
account relevant regulatory rules as well as the law and good industry practice at the time 
the policy was sold.
Our general approach to considering complaints about the sale of PPI can be found on our 
website. And although the policy Mrs D took out was not a PPI policy I think the relevant 
issues I need to consider are the same:

if Creation gave any advice or recommendation did it take adequate steps to ensure the 
product it recommended was suitable for Mrs D’s needs; and

did Creation give her information that was clear, fair and not misleading so she was put 
in a position where she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was 
buying;
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I then need to consider whether 
Mrs D would have acted differently if it had not done so.
I understand this policy was sold during a meeting when Mrs D arranged the finance for her 
sofa. Creation says it did not recommend the policy to her but provided her with information 
so she could decide for herself whether the policy was suitable. Mrs D agrees. So I think it 
most likely it did not recommend this policy to her. This means Creation did not have to 
ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs D. But it still had to ensure she was provided with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed choice.
did Creation meet Mrs D’s information needs?
The policy did not provide hospitalisation cover where the claim related to “any pre-existing 
medical condition which persists or returns during the first 24 months of your start date”. I am 
not persuaded clear information about this was provided to Mrs D before she agreed to take 
the policy out.
Creation says Mrs D would have been provided with the policy summary at her meeting and 
it was her responsibility to review the information within this document to determine her own 
suitability for the insurance. This does not suggest it would have orally drawn her attention to 
the significant features and exclusions of the policy (as it should). In any case I cannot be 
sure the policy summary was provided to her before she agreed to take out the policy; Mrs D 
has told us she does not recall being provided with any information. And while the credit 
agreement she has signed does contain a separate section relating to PPI it does not make 
any reference to the policy summary or the importance of reading this.
Ref: DRN3713255
2
Even if Mrs D did see this document and the exclusion relating pre-existing medical 
conditions (which is not prominently highlighted) it would not have made clear to her the 
extent of this exclusion. The policy document, which Creation has not suggested would have 
been available to Mrs D at the point of sale, includes within the definition of a pre-existing 
condition “related conditions and / or associated symptoms”. And while Mrs D may have 
been sent this afterwards she would only have been able to establish the exclusion by cross-
referencing the definitions section of the policy document with that relating to the exclusions.
I do not consider this was sufficient to meet her information needs. In any case it appears 
Mrs D made her decision to take the policy out during her meeting with Creation. So it was at 
that point her attention should have been drawn to the policy exclusions so she could make 
a properly informed choice.
And it seems to me this exclusion is something that would have been important to Mrs D. 
She told us that prior to taking the policy out she had suffered from cancer and it was only 
two years later she was “medically cleared” in relation to this. So I think when she agreed to 
take out the policy she might well have thought any future stay in hospital could well relate to 
this pre-existing condition or something connected to it.
I also have some concern Mrs D does not appear to have been provided with clear 
information about the cost of this policy. I appreciate she might have had some awareness of 
overall cost because the single premium amount and the total she would pay is on the credit 
agreement which she has signed. However, this does not set out the interest the single 
premium would attract. And while this information is contained on a separate ‘Statement of 
Price’ this document has not been signed by Mrs D. So I cannot be sure she saw this. In 
addition the monthly cost of the policy is not contained in any of the documents she should 
have been provided with.
I accept in some cases additional information on these costs might not have affected a 
consumer’s decision making. However, in this case it appears the hospitalisation element of 
this cover was unlikely to be of significant benefit to Mrs D. I think this might of itself have 
caused her to question the value the policy offered for her. If she had in addition known that 
taking out the policy would add around £30 to her monthly loan repayments (representing an 
increase in their cost of around 25%) and the interest on the single premium was almost 
equivalent to its initial cost I think this would also have affected her decision to take it out.
And while I recognise the policy also provided life and personal accident cover in order to 
benefit from this Mrs D would need to die or lose her sight or a limb (or lose use of a limb) as 
a result of an accident. I think she might have thought the circumstances in which she was 
likely to benefit from these elements of the cover were fairly limited.
As a result I think if Creation had made the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions and the true cost of the policy clear to Mrs D it is most likely she would have 
decided it did not represent good value for money for her and she would have decided 
against taking it out.
redress
Creation will need to put Mrs D back in the position she would have been if she had taken 
out this loan without insurance. I understand the loan and policy ran to term. 
Ref: DRN3713255
3
So it will need to:
(A) work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs D because PPI was 
added to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if she had taken out 
the loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what she actually paid and pay her the 
difference;

paying Mrs D interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid.†
(B) write to Mrs D to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation in Mrs D’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate tax 
from the compensation and Mrs D’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax 
position can be found on our website. Both parties should contact HM Revenue and 
Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to provide redress as set out above.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3713255
