K820x#14
complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
background
Mr M entered into a finance agreement with Creation with a buy now pay later (BNPL) 
option.
Mr M feels that the agreement was mis-sold to him. He says that the salesman didn’t explain 
the terms and conditions of BNPL and that he wasn’t told about the 14 day cooling off 
period. Mr M also says that he didn’t receive a letter from Creation at the end of the interest 
free period telling him the balance and how to pay.
Mr M says he’s been charged a very high rate of interest. He wants this refunded.
The adjudicator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said that Mr M had signed the finance 
agreement and in doing so had given confirmation that he had read and understood the 
terms and conditions. She also said that Creation had written to Mr M reminding him that the 
interest free period was ending.
Mr M didn’t agree. He says he didn’t receive a letter from Creation and he feels he has been 
exploited by the small print in the terms and conditions.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the agreement and I can see that this has been signed by Mr M. The onus was 
on Mr M to read the agreement before he signed it, and in so signing, Mr M confirmed that 
he had read and understood the agreement. He’s therefore bound by the terms and 
conditions.
The agreement contains all of the information about the interest free period, the interest rate 
and how interest is calculated. For these reasons I can’t say that Mr M wasn’t made aware of 
the terms and conditions.
The interest free period is set out in the agreement. I can also see that Creation sent a 
reminder letter to Mr M shortly before the interest free period ended. Mr M says he didn’t 
receive the letter but it’s been sent to him at the registered address. It appears that Mr M 
may have moved and he’s said that he can’t be certain whether he advised Creation of his 
change of address. On balance I’m satisfied that Creation sent the letter to the address it 
held on record.
I’m unable to say exactly what was discussed between Mr M and the salesman before Mr M 
signed the agreement. But I’m satisfied that the agreement contains all of the information 
about the interest free period and the interest rate to enable Mr M to make an informed 
decision. It also contains details of the right to cancel, so I’m satisfied that Mr M was aware 
that he had the right to change his mind.
Ref: DRN3940185
2
For the reasons given I don’t think that Creation has acted unreasonably or done anything 
wrong and I won’t be asking Creation to refund interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2018.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3940185
