K821x#14
complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has not refunded money he 
paid for an alarm system. The company providing maintenance and monitoring for the alarm 
stopped trading in 2011.
Mr S is represented by a claims company.
background
In February 2009 Mr S took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation for an alarm 
system. The total package included monitoring and maintenance of the alarm. In 2011, the 
provider stopped trading. Mr S was making monthly payments of £70.08.
In 2014 Mr S was contacted by a claims company who told him that he may have a claim 
against the finance provider. On his behalf, they submitted a claim to Creation that Mr S had 
been misled into getting the alarm fitted.
Creation did not believe the contract included a cost for the alarm monitoring and 
maintenance. They turned down Mr S’s claim. His claims company therefore brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator told Creation that she considered that the total amount payable included the 
servicing and monitoring of the alarm system. Therefore under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, Creation was liable for the breach of the contract by the supplier. She asked 
them to refund Mr S money that he’d paid since March 2011, when the supplier ceased 
trading. They should add 8% interest to that amount along with £100 compensation. This 
was for the delay in getting the case resolved.
Creation never responded to our adjudicator. This case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that, under a specific set of 
circumstances, a consumer may claim a refund of money paid to a supplier by a credit 
provider. However there can only be a valid claim under section 75 if there is sufficient 
evidence to show that the supplier:

said something about the goods or service being sold that wasn’t true; and

this is what made the customer enter into the contract; or

had broken the terms of the contract.
That means that I can only hold Creation responsible for what the supplier did if the 
company misled Mr S and this is why he entered into the contract. Or if I believe that the 
supplier didn’t meet the terms of the contract.
Ref: DRN3289236
2
There is no dispute that the original supplier of the alarm system ceased trading in March 
2011: just two years after Mr S took out the loan. There is no way that they were able to 
provide him with monitoring and maintenance. I can hold Creation liable for this loss of 
service if I believe this was part of Mr S’s contract.
Creation provided the service with a copy of the loan agreement which showed that Mr S 
took out a loan for £3,750 for an “alarm system and installation only”. They feel that he is 
receiving maintenance and monitoring as a free add-on. They therefore have no liability 
under section 75. I do not agree.
Mr S was provided with marketing material about the service he was getting. This states he 
was being provided with “24 hour monitoring day in, day out”. In addition he has an “ultimate 
unconditional guarantee”. And in case this wasn’t sufficient, his agreement with the supplier 
states that he’s paying a total package price of £4,750.
It’s worth noting that some of the written evidence in this case is difficult to read. For 
example the copy of the loan agreement and supplier order provided by Mr S’s claims 
company. Creation was able to give us a copy of the loan agreement that was clearer.
Creation is aware that we look at cases on an individual basis and review all the supporting 
material, including invoices and supplier information in addition to the loan agreement. 
However as they and we know, this supplier didn’t always complete the documentation in a 
consistent manner. I have taken into account what we know about other cases when 
considering Mr S’s complaint.
Specifically his total package price, £4,750, is very similar to what other people paid. In 
some of those cases there is explicit mention of the monitoring and maintenance. Mr S’s 
agreement with the supplier makes reference under additional comments to “15 years” 
monitoring or maintenance. It’s difficult to tell exactly which but I’m satisfied that this was 
included within his total package.
I am in no doubt that getting monitoring over a certain time period was conditional on Mr S 
paying £4,750. I believe that the monitoring and maintenance was a central part of what 
Mr S was buying. I can certainly see that this is what attracted him to buying the package in 
the first place.
Overall I am satisfied that a breach of contract took place when the supplier was unable to 
provide maintenance and monitoring. And I can hold Creation liable under section 75.
I broadly agree with our adjudicator and what she considered was fair redress. Creation 
should refund Mr S money that he’s paid them since March 2011, and cancel the credit 
agreement. 8% interest should be added to the money he gets back from Creation.
I am concerned that Creation never responded to our adjudicator. This has meant that this 
case was not resolved as early as it could have been. I agree that this has caused Mr S 
inconvenience. I consider it fair and reasonable that they pay him £250.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mr S’s complaint. I instruct 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to take the following actions in full and final settlement:
Ref: DRN3289236
3

Cancel Mr S’s fixed-sum loan agreement with immediate effect, ensuring that any 
future liability is waived;

Refund Mr S all monthly payments he has made under this agreement since March 
2011;

Add interest of 8% simple on those monthly amounts from the date of the debit from 
Mr S’s account to the settlement date;

Ensure that no adverse information relating to this agreement remains on Mr S’s 
credit record; and

Pay him £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2015.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3289236
