K820x#11
complaint
Mr L complains that the amount of interest that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has 
charged him for his loan is unfair and that he was not provided with a statement of his 
account in accordance with section 77B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr L entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in July 2012. 
The loan was to be repaid by 48 equal monthly repayments but he repaid it in approximately 
four months. Mr L complained to Creation Consumer Finance that the interest had been 
calculated unfairly and that he had not received the account statement that he had 
requested under section 77B. He was not satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
that Creation Consumer Finance had provided a satisfactory response to Mr L’s section 77B 
request and that it had applied the rebate of interest to his account correctly.
Mr L says that the account statement was not provided in accordance with section 77B 
because it did not include a breakdown to reflect capital repayment and interest charged. He 
also says that he does not agree that the interest rebate had been calculated correctly.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance sent an account statement to Mr L in November 2012 in 
response to his request for a section 77B account statement. The statement provided by 
Creation Consumer Finance did not fully comply with the requirements of section 77B as it 
did not include a breakdown of the instalments showing how much of them was made up of 
capital repayment and interest payment. Creation Consumer Finance should therefore 
provide an account statement to Mr L that is fully compliant with section 77B. 
I am satisfied that its failure to comply with those requirements will have caused Mr L 
distress and inconvenience. I therefore consider it to be fair and reasonable for it to pay him 
£100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Mr L repaid the loan in approximately four months. Creation Consumer Finance therefore 
applied an interest rebate to his account. I am not persuaded that there is enough evidence 
to show that the rebate was calculated incorrectly.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final 
settlement of it I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Provide an account statement to Mr L that is fully complaint with section 77B.
Ref: DRN3951938
2
2.
Pay £100 to Mr L to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he has 
been caused.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3951938
