K822x
complaint
Miss C is dissatisfied with Creation Financial Services Limited’s response to her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”). She considers that an item she 
bought using finance from Creation Financial was not fit for purpose when she bought it. On 
this basis she wants it to provide her with a full refund.
our initial conclusions 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She considered 
that Miss C had demonstrated that the item was substandard at the time it was bought. But 
she took on board that Miss C had had the use of the item for a number of years. 
She also concluded that the item would probably only have lasted for five years so on this 
basis and given the amount of time Miss C had enjoyed the item, Creation Financial’s offer 
to refund £499 was fair and reasonable. 
Further, she considered that its goodwill offer to pay £100 for distress and inconvenience 
was also fair and reasonable in the circumstances given that Creation Financial had not 
initially dealt with the complaint correctly but then did subsequently handle the complaint 
better.
Miss C did not accept this recommendation. She said, in summary, the item had not been fit 
for purpose when she bought it. So she should get a full refund. 
She considered it was not her fault but Creation Financial’s that she had the item for so long 
so she should not be penalised for this.
In any event she said she had bought an insurance policy that was useless to her because 
she was unable to claim on it any longer as the item was not fit for purpose and she should 
be compensated for this. Further, she would need to buy a new item to replace the old one 
so she would need a full refund so she could afford this.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that the item was not fit for purpose when Miss C bought it. What I have to 
consider is given how long ago she bought it and the use she has had of it what level of 
compensation should she receive. 
I recognise that Miss C says she told Creation Financial about the item as soon as she 
realised there was a problem. The difficulty is, that by this point, she had already had and 
enjoyed the item for a number of years. Miss C says that she did not get the enjoyment she 
should have had from the item because during the relevant period because the item was so 
damaged that it was no longer aesthetically pleasing. I take her point. But I also need to 
consider that she did nonetheless continue to use the item so it is clear that she was getting 
some benefit from it and she does not tell us that the item was so unsightly that she removed 
it from its prominent position in her home. In the circumstances I do not conclude it would be 
fair and reasonable to ask Creation Financial to give her all of her money back. It follows I 
consider a partial refund would be appropriate.
Ref: DRN3850881
2
I take on board that Miss C says she has had to hold on to the item for longer than she 
wanted because Creation Financial took so long to look into her complaint. But although I do 
agree that Creation Financial did cause some delays, I have to balance this against the fact 
that during this time Miss C was using the item.
I can well understand why Miss C is upset about the insurance policy. But this is a matter 
between her and the insurer. In the circumstances it’s not fair to ask Creation Financial to 
compensate Miss C for the actions of this third party.
Miss C may well wish to buy a new item to replace the faulty one. But that does not mean 
that she is entitled to compensation that will cover the cost of the new item - that is not the 
remedy for a breach of contract which is what has happened here.
In all the circumstances I consider that. given the age of the item, its original cost, the use 
that Miss C has had and how long the item might have been expected to last (it had a five 
year warranty) I consider Creation Financial’s offer is fair. It follows I do not consider I can 
reasonably ask it to pay anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited should pay Miss C:

£499 to compensate her for the breach of contract in relation to the item she 
purchased.

£100 for the distress and inconvenience its actions are likely to have caused her to 
have experienced.

It must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which Miss C 
accepts my final decision. If the business pays later than this:

It must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of the final decision until 
the date of payment at 8% per year simple.

If the business considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, 
it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so Miss C can reclaim the 
tax if she is able to.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3850881
