K820x#13
complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (the business) declined her credit 
application without reason.
background
In October 2014, Mrs B says she went to a retailer to buy an appliance. She says she was 
told that there was an offer of six months interest free credit provided by the business. Mrs B 
says she filled in the forms but at the end of her application her request was declined. She 
says that she had an excellent credit score and that it has been damaged by this.
Mrs B also complains that she sent documents to the business that were not acknowledged 
and then she was told they had been destroyed.
The business says that Mrs B’s application was refused because her final score (which is 
gained by entering data from Mrs B’s application and the credit reference agencies into an 
internal credit scoring system) was below its acceptance level. It says that this is the main 
reason why her application was declined and that it is not permitted to provide a specific 
reason.
It also says that Mrs B would need to have made a request for the information she sent in to 
be sent back. It says that nothing was sent back and that the documents would have been 
kept for six days before being destroyed.
The adjudicator said that she could not comment on the fairness of the business’ decision 
not to provide credit but could consider whether it had provided Mrs B with sufficient reasons 
for declining her application. She said that the business had its own scoring system and 
while Mrs B’s credit score was part of this, it is not the only information used. She said that 
the business found that after taking all information into its scoring system, Mrs B’s score was 
too low and therefore it was not appropriate to provide her with finance. She said that based 
on the evidence, she could not safely conclude that the business did not provide sufficient 
reasons for declining Mrs B credit.
Mrs B reiterated that she did not understand why she was refused credit given her excellent 
credit score and given she had recently paid off an agreement with the business for a larger 
amount. She says she is over 70 and thinks she was refused credit because of her age. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs B was upset that her credit application was declined. I have 
looked at Mrs B’s credit report and I can see why she did not understand the decision to 
refuse her credit given her credit file and her history with the business. However, a business’ 
decision on whether or not to provide credit is a commercial one and therefore it is not 
generally something we would comment on.
In this case Mrs B’s information from her application form was entered into the business’ 
internal scoring system and this information was combined with other sources of information 
including that provided by credit reference agencies. This then produced an overall score 
Ref: DRN3643415
2
and this was below the business’ acceptance level. The business has confirmed that its 
application process is driven automatically and background checks are run on credit files. 
Based on the information provided, I have nothing to suggest that the business did not follow 
its normal procedures when assessing Mrs B’s application.  
Mrs B has asked the business to explain why her application was refused. The business has 
explained that it does not provide specific details but is required to provide the main reason. I 
have requested further information from the business but it has said it cannot provide any 
further details on its lending criteria. 
While I can see why Mrs B’s upset, because the business will rely on a number of different 
sources to make a decision on whether or not to provide credit, and it is the business’ 
decision on who it lends to, I find I am unable to uphold Mrs B’s complaint. I understand that 
the reason given to Mrs B provides little insight into the decision but I do not find I can do 
anything further to require the business to provide further information.
While I accept this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, based on the above, I do not 
require the business to provide anything further to settle this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 August 2015.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3643415
