K822x
complaint
Mrs R has complained Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t refunded the money she’s 
paid for solar panels. She believes she was told the solar panels would pay for themselves 
within five years.
Mrs R is represented in her complaint by a firm of solicitors, T.
background 
In February 2013 Mrs R took out a loan with Creation for £10,900. This paid for solar panels 
to be fitted to her property. She believed any cost she was paying for the loan would be 
offset by the income she received for generating electricity and lower electricity bills within 
five years.
In late 2015, T complained to Creation on Mrs R’s behalf. They said she’d been mis-sold her 
solar panels and should have them removed and her payments refunded. Creation reviewed 
Mrs R’s electricity bills and money she’d got for generating electricity. They felt her panels 
were underperforming, based on her installation certificate. They offered her 25% off the 
costs of her loan agreement. T didn’t believe this was fair so brought Mrs R’s complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator felt the solar panels weren’t performing as promised to Mrs R. Initially she 
said the agreement should be cancelled with Mrs R getting a refund of payments and the 
panels removed. Creation didn’t believe this was fair based on the evidence of what Mrs R 
could expect to get out of using the panels. Our adjudicator had also spoken to Mrs R. She’d 
confirmed she and her husband were told they’d be able to pay for the system within five 
years. Their electricity bills would also be reduced. Mrs R wasn’t keen on having the panels 
removed from their roof.
After some further discussion with our adjudicator Creation offered to cancel Mrs R’s 
agreement allowing her to keep the panels. They’d take no further payments. As this meant 
Mrs R’s solar panels would be completely paid for within four years, our adjudicator felt this 
was fair.  
T didn’t agree as they didn’t think this was the right redress where the panels had been mis-
sold. Our adjudicator clarified why she felt this resolution was fair. This would allow Mrs R to 
keep her panels. She’d also continue getting income from the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) without 
having to make any further payments to her loan.
T asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role as an informal dispute resolution service is to decide whether the business has 
acted fairly and the resolution they’ve offered is fair and reasonable. In this case, Creation 
has offered to cancel Mrs R’s loan agreement, allowing her to keep the solar panels. She’s 
paid £6,133.70, which is just more than half the value of the solar panels and slightly more 
Ref: DRN3907183
2
than a third of the cost of the loan agreement. She’s also less than four years into her loan 
agreement.
So as well as the settlement on offer, I’ve also considered the evidence about what Mrs R 
knew when she took out the agreement. This includes:

Signing a loan agreement agreeing to pay £140.90 a month over a ten year period;

Being told the panels would pay for themselves – and I believe that includes the cost 
of the finance as well – within five years;

Creation’s offer puts her in the position she thought she would be in less than five 
years if this was what made Mrs R take out the agreement and have the solar panels 
installed.
T is concerned Mrs R was promised high financial savings over a 25 year period which she 
won’t be getting. Firstly I think this document was part of generic marketing material rather 
than specific savings that Mrs R would be getting. There’s nothing to show this is 
personalised or guaranteed. And at the same time as getting this, Mrs R also had the 
opportunity to review and consider the documentation around her loan agreement.  
She then received an installation certificate after the solar panels were fitted. She was able 
to look at this material and raise any concerns if she felt what she was getting didn’t match 
what she was told. In fact Mrs R had the solar panels for nearly three years before 
complaining to Creation.  
It’s worth adding I don’t doubt Mrs R’s supplier’s record in selling and representing solar 
panels doesn’t reflect well on them. However I’m satisfied it’s not only what Mrs R was told, 
but what she reviewed and signed that played a part in her decision to take out the 
agreement and have the panels installed.
Even if I felt there was evidence of misrepresentation, I still think Creation’s offer to resolve 
Mrs R’s complaint is fair in the circumstances.  
Mrs R’s supplier is no longer in business and she may be concerned about the future 
effective operation of her panels. She will still be able to ask Creation to consider any future 
breaches of contract as she still has the panels.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my final decision is Creation Consumer Finance Limited’s offer to 
cancel Mrs R’s loan agreement so she pays no more than £6,133.70 is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2016.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3907183
