K821x#15
complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the outcome of her complaint about a claim she made against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
‘Act’), after her solar panel system stopped working.
background
Mrs H had a solar panel system fitted in early 2015 by a supplier that has since gone bust. 
Creation financed the installation with a 10-year loan. The system worked initially. But in 
September 2017, Mrs H reported to Creation that it was no longer functioning. 
The supplier had given Mrs H an insurance-backed guarantee for the work. But the insurer 
providing the backing to the guarantee had also gone bust. So, Mrs H tried to take her claim 
to a company that was working with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’), 
following up on claims against the insolvent insurer. But she was advised by them that she’d 
only have 90% of her claim paid if she did. They told her that, as financier, Creation would 
be liable to pay 100% under Section 75 of the Act. So, she went to Creation for help.
Creation took over six months to deal with Mrs H’s claim and complaint. Mrs H chased 
Creation up over this time. And she’s told us she spent significant periods on the phone to a 
premium rate number. She also says that her emails weren’t returned. In its final response to 
the complaint, Creation said that a fault hadn’t yet been confirmed, so it wouldn’t deal with 
the claim.
Creation referred Mrs H to its own insurer to follow up on what the problem was. The Insurer 
sent out an engineer who issued a report finding that there was a fault with the inverter. Mrs 
H was told that she’d need to take this up with the manufacturer. So, she gave them a call. 
The manufacturer said it would be prepared to come out. But that as it was located many 
miles from where Mrs H lived, she’d need to cover its travel costs. These were estimated at 
over £300.
So, Mrs H went back to Creation, which continued to maintain that it was a manufacturing 
fault and that she’d need to deal with the manufacturer. Mrs H brought her complaint to this 
service.
Once we were involved, Creation contacted the manufacturer who said that the fault 
identified was extremely rare. The manufacturer said it would come out and take the inverter 
away for examination. But it indicated there could be a problem with the wiring in Mrs H’s 
home that had caused the malfunction. Creation said it would pay the costs of the 
manufacturer for attending. But it wouldn’t agree that it was liable unless or until Mrs H’s 
electrics were ruled out as being at fault.
This was in March 2020 when the country went into lock-down. So, the manufacturer 
couldn’t attend immediately. Our investigator explored whether the claim could be cash-
settled. But this was never agreed and after some further recommendations from an 
investigator, the matter ultimately came to me for decision.
In advance of this final decision, I issued a provisional decision in which I indicated my 
intention to uphold the complaint. Both parties accepted that provisional decision.
Ref: DRN3256681
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I’ve decided to uphold it. I’ll explain 
why below.
In my provisional decision, I made the following findings:
‘Section 75 of the Act provides that a consumer can bring their claim against the original 
supplier and/or the finance provider who are both jointly and severally liable for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. Here the original supplier has gone bust, so Mrs H had little 
choice but to bring her claim to Creation.
This is a case where the solar panel system worked on installation but failed two years or so 
later. That failure has been determined to have been caused by a fault with the inverter 
which is showing an error code. Its durability must clearly be in question as it has broken 
down only two years into a 10-year finance agreement.
Mrs H had the benefit of an insurance-backed guarantee from the supplier. As it was no 
longer around to come out and fix the system, she was left to fall back on either the insurer 
or Creation. The insurer had gone bust. So that just left Creation. And it was required under 
Section 75 to deal with the breach of contract by the supplier and insurer in not coming to 
Mrs H’s aid under the guarantee.
Creation took far too long to deal with Mrs H’s Section 75 claim. And when it did give her it’s 
final response letter, it passed her on to its own insurers. I don’t think Mrs H should have had 
to go to the effort of following this up with yet another third party. It was for Creation to make 
the arrangements for its insurers to come out and inspect the system, if that’s how it wanted 
to handle the claim. Telling Mrs H that it wasn’t responsible as there was no fault identified, 
when her solar panel system clearly wasn’t working and the insurance-backed guarantee 
hadn’t been fulfilled, wasn’t an appropriate response to her claim for a breach of contract. 
The insurer’s engineer’s report indicates a failed inverter with error code ‘9’ – ‘AC current 
sensor failure’. The insurer and Creation then told Mrs H that she’d need to deal with the 
manufacturer herself to get this fixed. That wasn’t fair and reasonable. It was for Creation to 
stand in the shoes of the original supplier to honour the insurance-backed guarantee and to 
deal with any failed parts that weren’t of satisfactory quality.
The manufacturer wanted to charge Mrs H over £300 to come out and look at the inverter. 
And, again, it wasn’t fair and reasonable for Creation to have asked Mrs H to either deal with 
the manufacturer directly or to cover those travel costs herself. The inverter had failed just 
over two years after installation. The fact that it had worked up until then, indicates that it’s 
unlikely that it was Mrs H’s electrics that were to blame. And if there was a problem with the 
electrics, I would have expected the original supplier to have noted that when the system 
was first installed. The error code ‘9’ may be rare, but it was for Creation to liaise with the 
manufacturer to find out the cause and remedy it. And it hasn’t done that.
The finance for Mrs H’s system has been provided over 10 years. And she was fairly and 
reasonably entitled to expect that the inverter would last for a good deal longer than two 
years. The Sale of Goods Act 1979 applies to this installation. And the inverter was required 
to be of satisfactory quality. There’s no indication that wear and tear could be an issue here, 
given its age. And the engineer found that it was displaying a fault code. So, on the basis of 
Ref: DRN3256681
3
the evidence available, it’s my finding that the inverter is more likely than not faulty and that 
this was something that was likely to have been an inherent fault at the time of the original 
installation. So, it wasn’t of satisfactory quality and Creation is now responsible for that.
Creation has given Mrs H quite the run-around over what is coming up to three and a half 
years. During this time, she’s been without her solar system but has continued to pay for it 
monthly. Mrs H would have expected not only to save on electricity, but also would have 
been entitled to Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments from the government over the period. So, she 
has suffered a financial loss.
I’ve considered what fair compensation for this would be. And I’ve provisionally decided that 
Creation should refund Mrs H her finance payments for the period since she first reported 
the system problems, in September 2017, until Creation arranges for the system to be fixed. 
I did think about whether or not Mrs H should be asked to go to the trouble of proving her 
exact loss in terms of FIT payments and electricity over the period. But the monthly 
instalments are about £129, and a significant proportion of those is interest. Mrs H has had 
no benefit at all from the system over this period. So, it’s difficult to see that it’s fair and 
reasonable to require her to pay for something over this lengthy period where it has not been 
working at all. So, I consider the refund of the monthly payments to be fair compensation for 
the loss that Mrs H will have suffered.  
Mrs H also experienced trouble and upset through the way she’s been treated over the time 
this claim has taken. And I’ve taken that into account in the award I intend to make for the 
instalment refunds. But Mrs H also had to spend a significant amount of time pursuing her 
claim in the first place. Her emails weren’t responded to and she had to make a number of 
lengthy phone calls. For the trouble and upset she experienced for that, I intend to award her 
£250 compensation.’
Both Mrs H and Creation have accepted the findings in my provisional decision. So, I see no 
need to amend those. And I now adopt them as my findings in this final decision.
Ref: DRN3256681
4
my final decision
It’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
do the following:

arrange for the repair or replacement, as appropriate, of the faulty parts of Mrs H’s 
solar panel system and/or remedy its installation, so that it works properly again;

refund Mrs H the monthly finance instalments for the period from September 2017 
when she reported the faults until the system is repaired; and

pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset that she’s been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3256681
