K820x#14
complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to tell her in her annual statements 
that she could make overpayments on her loan.
background
In December 2010 Mrs M took out a five-year loan with Creation. She received annual loan 
statements until January 2013, when she paid off the loan early. It does not appear to be in dispute 
that the interest was reduced by £972:40 as a result.
In February 2018 Mrs M complained to Creation because it had not told her that she could make 
overpayments on her account. She said this information should have been included in her monthly 
statements.
Creation disagreed. It said that is not what statements are for, and in any case the loan agreement 
had made it clear that she could settle early. It pointed out that she had done just that, and had 
paid less interest by doing so.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mrs M complained to our Service. (Her husband also signed 
our complaint form, but as he was not a party to the loan agreement he is not eligible to complain, 
and so I have treated this complaint as Mrs M’s only.) She said that rules made in 2008 required 
annual statements to include information about the right to make overpayments.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. She said there was no such requirement, and the 
statements had complied with legal requirements. But she also said that the statements (and the 
loan agreement as well) had mentioned the right to settle the agreement early, and Mrs M had 
done exactly that. That suggested that she had been aware of her rights.
Mr M replied on Mrs M’s behalf to say that she could have paid even less interest if she had settled 
the loan earlier, which could have happened if she had been given clearer information. He said that 
rules made in 2010 (rather than 2008) required annual statements to mention her right to do so. He 
also said Creation had not complied with Principle 7 of the Principles of Business in the FCA 
Handbook. He asked for Mrs M to be refunded of all the interest she had paid under the loan. So 
the adjudicator referred this complaint to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I will explain why this case falls within the jurisdiction of our Service, since 
Creation objected to us considering it. We can normally only deal with a complaint if it has been 
brought within six years of the event which is being complained about. But Creation said that the 
loan was taken out in 2010 and Mrs M complained in 2018, which is more than six years later. 
However, this complaint isn’t about the loan itself, or the loan agreement. It’s about the contents of 
her annual statements. The last statement she received was in December 2012, which was less 
than six years before she complained. So I think that I do have power to consider this complaint.
Now that Mr M has clarified that he is referring to rules introduced in 2010 instead of 2008, I think 
he must be referring to the Consumer Credit (EU Directive) Regulations 2010. Some of the 
provisions about early settlement apply to Mrs M’s loan agreement.1 Mr M has sought to draw a 
Ref: DRN3949827
2
distinction between early settlement and what he calls “overpayment,” but the latter term is not 
used in the Directive and I am not aware of any separate right by that name. An early settlement is 
an overpayment, as it is a payment of more than is contractually required at the time it is made. So 
I have had regard to the relevant rules about early settlement, as amended by the Directive. 
(I have also considered the Consumer Credit (Agreements) Regulations 2010, but they do not 
assist Mrs M.)
I cannot find any requirement for an annual statement to include information about early 
settlement. I therefore do not think that Creation broke the rules. Nevertheless, I note that the 2011 
annual statement says (under the heading “Settling your credit agreement early”):
“You can settle this agreement at any time by giving us notice in writing and paying off the amount 
you owe. If you wish to settle early you should contact us for a settlement figure.”
(I haven’t seen the 2012 statement, but I infer that it was similarly worded to the 2011 one.)
The loan agreement also says on page one, under the heading – written in block capitals – 
“Important – read this carefully to find out about your rights”:
“You can settle this agreement at any time by giving notice in writing and paying off the amount you 
owe under the agreement which may be reduced by a rebate.”
Principle 7 reads:
“A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.”
I think the two passages I have quoted above complied with that Principle.
So I think that Creation did bring the right to settle early (or to make an overpayment) to Mrs M’s 
attention when she took the loan – even though it was not obliged to do so at the time. And it 
reminded her of that right a year later (and, I infer, in the year after that).
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject 
my decision before 20 August 2018.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 These are regulations 29 to 35, 59 to 62, and 77 to 84 (by virtue of regulation 100(4)).
Ref: DRN3949827
