K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains that he rejected an iPad within 14 days of purchase as it was faulty, but 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) refused to accept the rejection or refund him the 
cost. He also said CCF failed to clarify the interest payable when the finance was sold.
background
Mr P bought an iPad with finance from CCF. He said an update to the operating system 
meant he couldn’t use the iPad and the manufacturer confirmed the update contained flaws. 
He said his iPad couldn’t be unlocked and he was entitled to reject it. He wants his credit 
agreement to be cancelled and the amount he’s paid refunded. 
CCF said the iPad had been separately checked by the retailer and technical support and 
both confirmed there were no faults. CCF spoke to the retailer who said the update could be 
arranged by the retailer or manufacturer. Mr P said he couldn’t do this at home as he would 
require a working laptop, and it wasn’t fair for him to have to travel for a repair.
The investigator initially recommended the complaint be upheld in part, saying he considered 
a section 75 claim according to whether or not the iPad was faulty, but there were no reports 
to show it was. He said a factory reset would confirm one way or another and until then CCF 
didn’t have to refund the cost of the iPad but should pay Mr P £100 compensation for his 
inconvenience. He said CCF had disclosed the rate of interest on the agreement.  
CCF didn’t agree, saying there was no fault with the iPad and it only needed a reset at the 
store where it was purchased. CCF said the product was subject to regular software updates 
and so the issue wasn’t unusual and compensation wasn’t merited in these circumstances. 
The investigator reconsidered and didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Mr P 
had been told several times he could go to his local store for the reset. He said this shouldn’t 
cause him much inconvenience and the retailer would consider a refund of his travel costs. 
He said that in any event it wasn’t CCF’s role to pay compensation for inconvenience. 
Mr P said that several months after he bought the iPad the manufacturer alerted users to 
security risks and said it should carry out the reset. Mr P said the retailer had requested £60 
for the work. Mr P requested that an ombudsman review the complaint.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This complaint is against the provider of the finance for the iPad, CCF and doesn’t involve 
Mr P’s consumer rights in respect of the retailer or manufacturer, or his payment for 
technical support. Mr P has mentioned several different regulations concerning consumer 
rights and finance, however for his claim against CCF to succeed it would need to fall within 
the provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Section 75 of the Act provides a remedy against a finance provider in respect of a 
misrepresentation, or breach of contract by the supplier. From the descriptions of Mr P’s 
iPad the issue isn’t a fault, but the need for a reset to encompass software updates to the 
system. This would include identifiable security risks. 
Ref: DRN3599111
2
The requirement for a software update isn’t unusual and doesn’t amount to a repair, and 
consequently I don’t think the contract to buy the iPad has been breached and I don’t require 
CCF to repay the amount of finance that Mr P incurred. Should a fault be revealed by the 
reset then it would be open to Mr P to bring a claim under the section 75 provision.
A successful claim under section 75 provides a remedy for breach of contract, but there’s no 
provision for a finance provider to pay a consumer compensation for service issues such as 
inconvenience where a claim isn’t met. So although Mr P has faced an inconvenient 
software problem, I don’t require CCF to pay him compensation. Notwithstanding this, Mr P 
has been invited to return the iPad for reset at the store where he purchased it and 
subsequently raised his complaint. This wouldn’t appear to represent much inconvenience 
and I hope he’s able to do this.  
I’ve seen no evidence that the store where Mr P bought the iPad will charge him for the reset 
and in fact has offered to meet his travel costs. I think this represents a fair and reasonable 
resolution to his problem. The finance agreement which Mr P used to buy the iPad clearly 
sets out the interest payable. 
my final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2018.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3599111
