K821x#15
complaint
Mrs R complains about a corner group suite she bought which was financed by a loan from 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, (“CCFL”). She is unhappy with the quality of the goods 
and feels they are not fit for purpose. She wishes to reject the items and get a refund of all 
payments made. The complaint is brought to this service on Mrs R’s behalf by a family 
member. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs R.
background
Mrs R entered into a loan agreement with CCFL on 22 March 2015 to finance the acquisition 
of a corner group suite. She raised concerns about the suite and the retailer investigated. It 
discovered the brackets weren’t positioned correctly and there was a lack of filling in two of  
the back cushions. Because the repair timescales for these issues were unreasonable, the 
retailer agreed to replace the suite. On 5 December 2015, the replacement suite was 
delivered. But, on 8 December 2015 Mrs R complained about the replacement suite. The 
retailer inspected the suite on the next day and found an issue with the mechanism, which 
was rectified on the same day. But Mrs R then raised a complaint in April 2016 about the 
footstall. However, when the retailer came to inspect this in April 2016, further faults were 
identified which included the recliner mechanism rubbing on the floor when opening, a 
bump/lump on the corner of the inside back cushion and the sofa kept coming apart. These 
were confirmed by the retailer’s technician’s report.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that both 
the original and replacement suites had faults which were likely to be manufacturing issues 
or something caused on delivery. The adjudicator recommended that CCFL should:-
-
Arrange to collect the suite at its cost;
-
Cancel the agreement and remove all information about it from Mrs R’s credit file.
-
Refund all monthly repayments made by Mrs R;
-
Pay Mrs R 8% simple interest on the above refund from the date of each payment to
       the date of settlement; and 
-
Pay Mrs R £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
CCFL disagreed and responded to say that it didn’t dispute that the complaint should be 
upheld as the faults had been confirmed by the retailer to have resulted from a combination 
of manufacturing faults and missing parts from delivery. But, the retailer had offered a repair 
of the suite at no cost to Mrs R. And, as Mrs R had already had the goods for five months 
when the complaint was received, it believed that this was a fair and reasonable response in 
the circumstances.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint is brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Under this 
section and subject to a number of satisfying conditions, where there has been a breach of 
contract, Mrs R can bring her complaint to CCFL as the provider of the loan that was used to 
buy the suite.
Ref: DRN3518729
2
There would be a breach of contract if the suite was not of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. If I find there is a breach of contract, I need to consider which of the available 
remedies of repair, replacement, return of goods or a refund is appropriate.
I’m satisfied that both the original and replacement corner suites were faulty when supplied 
and that there has been a breach of contract. I note that this is accepted by CCFL. And it’s 
not in doubt that as the corner suites were faulty, that CCFL is also responsible for this.
I note that the first suite was replaced and I can see that this was an appropriate remedy at 
the time. But the replacement suite was also faulty. I can see that CCFL feels that repair is 
an appropriate remedy for the suite. But, I can also see that Mrs R has lost confidence in the 
retailer’s goods due to the several faults in both suites. And I can see that the faults arose in 
the replacement suite just over four months after its delivery. I can understand that Mrs R 
might feel that further faults might arise after any repairs in view of her experience with the 
suite to date.
So, I agree with the adjudicator that the most appropriate remedy would be for CCFL to take 
back the suite, cancel Mrs R’s agreement and that all the repayments made under the 
agreement should be refunded. Interest at an annual rate of 8% simple should also be paid 
from the date of each repayment until the date of settlement, and the account should be 
removed from Mrs R’s credit file. I can also see that Mrs R has suffered distress and 
inconvenience arising out of the problems with the suites and the delays in resolving the 
matter. I agree with the adjudicator that CCFL should pay her £250 compensation for her 
time and trouble in pursuing the matter.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Arrange for the suite to be picked up from Mrs R’s home. This should be done at a    
time that is convenient for both Mrs R and CCFL. But only CCFL must pay the 
removal costs.
2.
Cancel the agreement and remove all information about it from Mrs R’s credit file.
3.
Refund all monthly repayments made by Mrs R;
4.
Pay Mrs R interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the above refund from the date 
of each payment to the date of settlement; and 
5.
Pay Mrs R £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN3518729
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2016.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518729
