K821x#15
complaint
Mr M complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation). He took out a car loan 
with them in 2015 but has had problems with the car and wants to reject it. He holds 
Creation liable for the problems as the finance provider. 
background
July 2015 – March 2016
In July 2015 Mr M bought a second hand car from K for £25,980. £700 of the £1000 deposit 
was paid for on Mr M’s credit card and the remaining £300 was paid for in cash. The balance 
was settled through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation of which the monthly 
payments were £541.18. At the time of sale the car was advertised with a recorded mileage 
of 40,000. Mr M also says he was told he’d be given the car’s logbook and second key.  
Whilst looking through the car’s paperwork in October 2015, Mr M found a vehicle mileage 
check certificate from the car’s manufacturer. This recorded that the car had 43,000 miles on 
the clock when the previous owner bought it in 2014 - so a higher mileage than as 
advertised a year later in 2015. Mr M contacted K to discuss the issue. When they didn’t get 
back to him, he contacted Creation. 
Mr M first called Creation on 17 October 2015. During the call he told them about the 
discrepancy with the mileage. By the time Mr M called Creation a second time on 
27 October, he’d discovered K had stopped trading. At this point he asked Creation to 
consider deducting £5000 from the loan agreement to reflect the higher mileage. While 
Creation investigated the matter, Mr M continued to drive the car.  
In November 2015 Mr M was stopped by police while driving the car. It had been reported 
stolen by the previous owner; Mr S. Mr M was allowed to continue driving the car when he 
produced proof of ownership, but around a week later he was issued with an “Ownership of 
property: warning” notice. The notice confirmed there was a dispute over the ownership of 
the car and that Mr M would be committing a criminal offence if he sold, transferred or 
disposed of the car. 
The police’s involvement was instigated by Mr S. It emerged that K had entered into a “sale 
or return” agreement with Mr S. In essence K had agreed to sell the car for Mr S in exchange 
for commission. But while the dealership had sold the car to Mr M for £25,980, Mr S says he 
didn’t receive any money at all. 
In December 2015 Mr S took the car that was parked outside Mr M’s home using a second 
key. Mr S left a note stating that he was the owner of the car and that K hadn’t had the legal 
right to transfer ownership of it to Mr M. The car was reported stolen by 
Mr M and in early February 2016 through solicitors, Mr M got back in touch with Creation. He 
asked for a refund of the monthly payments he’d made for the car on the basis of the issues 
around ownership. He raised a similar claim with the credit card company he paid the 
deposit with – they refunded Mr M’s £1000 deposit along with other expenses. Creation 
wrote to Mr M in March 2016. They confirmed that they’d credited his account with £1000 in 
recognition of his complaint that the car’s mileage had been altered. In the same letter they 
gave Mr M referral rights to our service. 
June 2016 – July 2017
Ref: DRN3621418
2
Mr M contacted our service in June 2016 for help resolving the issue. He told us that he 
hadn’t had the car since December 2015 and had bought another car to get to work. He’d 
also stopped making the monthly payments. Initially, when the complaint was being 
considered by our service the issue of who owned the car still required determination. That 
matter was resolved when Mr S confirmed he’d taken legal advice and as a result accepted 
that ownership transferred to Mr M at the point of sale. Therefore I no longer need to 
consider this point. Mr S has since sent the logbook to Mr M, although it remains in his 
name. 
The car is currently being stored by F who acted as broker for the finance agreement at the 
point of sale. Mr M says he now wants to reject the car because of the mileage and 
ownership issues. In response to this, Creation told our service in March 2017 that they 
thought the “starting point” for arriving at a fair outcome was to reduce the loan by £2000 
which they assessed as the difference in the value of the car bearing in mind the mileage 
issues. 
The complaint was looked into by our investigator. Based on the information available she 
thought it was fair for Mr M to be able to reject the car under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Section 75 provides consumers with an equal right to make a claim against 
the provider of credit if there’s a breach of contract or misrepresentation at the time of the 
sale. Our investigator thought there was a misrepresentation and as a result, she 
recommended that Creation should end Mr M’s finance agreement at no cost to him and 
remove any detrimental information about the agreement from his credit report. These 
actions should take place on the condition that Mr M sign over the ownership of the car to 
Creation. Our investigator also thought it would be fair for Creation to keep all payments 
Mr M paid to them whilst he had the car. 
Creation didn’t agree with this recommendation. In their letter sent to the service in July 2017 
they made a number of points. They include (amongst others):

Mr M has affirmed the contract by his words and actions, Creation noted in particular that:
-
When Mr M found out about the mileage issue in 2015 he continued to use the car and 
only asked Creation for a price reduction when he contacted them. He didn’t seek to 
reject the car. 
-
Mr M would have known about the option to reject the car in 2015 as he’d received 
advice from three separate independent sources.
-
Mr M’s initial complaint to our service related to the ownership of the car and not the 
mileage issue. In their view Mr M has changed his positon in order to suit his 
circumstances.
 

It’s not fair for any detrimental information to be removed from Mr M’s credit file. Had the 
car been stolen by someone other than Mr S, with or without the Key, Mr M would have 
been liable to make the payments. 

Mr M has refused to do anything to help his situation. 
As Creation disagree with our investigator’s opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN3621418
3
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Before setting out my conclusions, I should make clear that it is my duty to resolve 
complaints with reference to what is fair and reasonable. So, while I have taken the relevant 
law into account I am not bound to follow it. My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in each case based on the specific circumstances. 
Mr M and Creation have both provided a lot of helpful information in relation to the complaint. 
I may not specifically mention the individual points they’ve made but I’ve taken them all into 
account. 
As the background to the complaint shows, a lot has happened in the period between 
Mr M buying the car in 2015 and now. In order to reach a fair outcome, I must consider what 
is required to put the parties back in the position they would have been in if these issues had 
not occurred. It seems to me that I have to consider the recent history and current position in 
order to reach a fair outcome. The additional events, which include the car being taken by Mr 
S and the uncertainty about ownership, have affected how 
Mr M has presented his complaint over the last two years. I don’t consider that any variation 
in his complaint shows that he has changed his complaint to suit his circumstances – 
instead, it’s the circumstances that have changed over time.
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Creation didn’t sell the car to Mr M and it isn’t their fault K ceased trading. But, because 
Mr M paid for the car through a fixed sum loan agreement Creation do have obligations 
towards Mr M through Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Section 75 can apply 
where a borrower enters into a transaction financed by a loan as a result of arrangements 
between the supplier of goods and the lender. In that case, a borrower who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier has a “like claim” against the 
lender. This seems to be the situation here. So I’ve thought about the issues in this case, 
whether Mr M was given correct information and whether there was a breach of the original 
agreement. 
Mr M’s given us the advert produced by K at the time of the sale. It sets out the car’s price, 
its age and importantly its mileage, which was recorded as 40,000. It’s not in dispute that 
40,000 does not appear to be the car’s true mileage, so essentially the car was not as 
described. I also think there’s enough evidence to show that advertising the car at a lower 
than actual mileage was a misrepresentation. In any event, I am persuaded that it’s unlikely 
Mr M would have bought the car if he knew the mileage had been altered in any way. 
Clocking has several implications; the owner doesn’t know what the actual mileage is and as 
a result is likely to find it harder to re-sell the car as they’ll have to disclose that the actual 
mileage is unknown. Also, inaccurate mileage can affect the value of the car and the owner’s 
ability to safely maintain the car or gauge when checks should be carried out. It’s possible 
Mr M may have bought the car if the correct mileage had been disclosed and if that mileage 
was reflected accurately on the car’s dashboard. But that didn’t happen here. 
Ref: DRN3621418
4
Additionally, K didn’t provide Mr M with the car’s log book or spare key. I accept that there 
isn’t a written record of what Mr M was told about this but, on balance, I am persuaded by Mr 
M’s submissions that he was told he would receive both items. He’s been consistent on this 
point and it’s clear both items were available due to the fact that they were subsequently 
produced by Mr S. I know Creation don’t think the absence of a second key is much of an 
issue. They’ve highlighted that many cars are sold without one. This might be true if a spare 
key doesn’t exist, but this was not the position in this case. A second key was available and 
it was not provided as agreed. The key’s absence can have implications for the safety of the 
car, which ultimately arose in this case when the car was taken from outside Mr M’s home by 
the first owner. In any event, I’m satisfied Mr M was told he would receive both the spare key 
and the log book with the car as part of the sale. In failing to provide them to him, K broke an 
agreement. 
It appears to me, based on the evidence, that Mr M was misled about the mileage of the car, 
which all parties have agreed has been clocked. Furthermore, there are items which formed 
part of the sale which were not provided and should have been. 
affirmation 
When Mr M first contacted Creation in October 2015 he didn’t say he wanted to reject the 
car. During those calls Mr M makes comments about being generally happy with the car and 
asks for a £5,000 reduction in the loan amount to reflect the mileage issue. Creation rely on 
these discussions as evidence that Mr M “affirmed” the contract. The legal affect being that 
he could not later change his mind and reject the car.  Furthermore, Creation have 
emphasised that Mr M was well aware of his right to reject the car because he had obtained 
advice from three independent sources – namely the Citizen’s Advice Bureau (CAB), 
Trading Standards and solicitors.  
I understand the points Creation have made; however, I am not persuaded that Mr M’s 
actions, in trying to negotiate a reduction during those early calls, amounted to his final 
choice about what to do or that he was fully informed about his options at the time. In any 
event, nothing was decided as a result of those conversations. Mr M made a request during 
the call and Creation didn’t get back to him about it. Then, in the following months the 
circumstances continued to change (such as the car’s removal from outside his house) 
which meant the focus of the discussion shifted – it was no longer appropriate from Mr M’s 
perspective to simply obtain a reduction in the sum of the loan as he no longer had the car. 
On the information available, I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to 
conclude that Mr M “affirmed” the contract as Creation suggests.  
putting things right
As I’m satisfied Mr M was misled and the agreement was not adhered to, I must decide 
what, if anything, the business needs to do to put the situation right.
Under section 75, Creation are liable as if they were K. Based on what I’ve seen, and under 
my fair and reasonable remit, I’m persuaded that the fair outcome is for Mr M to be allowed 
to reject the car. Essentially, it wasn’t as described at the time of purchase, and while the 
failure to provide the log book and the second key may be of less concern they still formed 
part of the agreement. These issues are significant for the reasons outlined, which include 
the safety of the car and access to the information in the log book.  
Ref: DRN3621418
5
Having found that Mr M was misled, that the agreement wasn’t adhered to and that Mr M 
should in turn be able to reject the car, I consider it fair in order to put things right for 
Creation to end the agreement.  This should be at no cost to Mr M and there shall be no 
further payments due. Mr M last made a payment under the agreement in January 2016. A 
six month payment break was applied. The evidence indicates that payments were expected 
to be resumed in July 2016 but haven’t been. It may be that because payments haven’t been 
made, negative entries have been entered on to Mr M’s credit report (although in May 2017 
Creation told us they hadn’t applied late or non –payment charges to his loan account). 
It’s not disputed Mr M hasn’t made payments under the agreement but it seems the main 
reason for this is because he hasn’t had the car since December 2015. It was first taken 
from his house by Mr S and after that it has been stored by F. Up until the car was taken, Mr 
M had been making payments. Creation are of the view that the fact Mr M hasn’t had 
possession of the car makes no difference to the situation and consider Mr S’ action to be 
irrelevant. This is on the basis that any theft of the car would not have meant that Mr M was 
entitled to stop making payments. Whilst I understand the logic of this argument, I don’t 
agree with it. The point is flawed as the circumstances in the current complaint are entirely 
different to the scenario of a theft from an un-associated person. 
The circumstances that unfolded after Mr M bought the car have been unusual and at times 
complex. The spare key that should have been provided as part of the sale was still in the 
possession of the former owner of the vehicle – Mr S. After being contacted by Mr S, the 
police in turn contacted Mr M, informing him that there was a dispute over the ownership of 
the car. Soon after, the car was taken on the basis that Mr M did not have ownership of it. 
These events have led to Mr M no longer having possession of the vehicle and have caused 
him to spend more money to try and resolve the situation. If the spare key had been 
provided as agreed, the car would not have been taken in the manner it was. Mr M has had 
to pay legal fees and latterly buy a new car to get to work. In these unusual circumstances 
I’m satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Creation to remove any negative information 
about the loan from Mr M’s credit file. And once the agreement has ended no back payments 
will be due. 
Up until December 2015, when the car was in his possession, Mr M was able to drive the 
car. As he had use of the car during this period I think it’s fair that Creation keep the 
payments he made (including the payment of January 2016). So I won’t direct that Creation 
refund him any money that he has already paid under the agreement. 
Mr M has already received a refund from his credit card company which I’ve noted. In 
reviewing the credit card company’s letter to Mr M dated 25 April 2016 in which they 
breakdown what the refund was for, I can see that the amount refunded was for the deposit 
Mr M paid and for other costs he incurred when he bought the car, for example payments for 
body work. None of the refunded amount that Mr M received from his credit card company 
appears to be for payment for the cost of the car which was covered by the loan from 
Creation. As a result, I don’t think the refund that Mr M has already received from his credit 
card company affects what Creation now has to do. 
I’ve considered what should happen to the car. While Mr M has made some payments 
towards the loan used to finance its purchase, a large proportion of the payments that make 
up the bulk of the car’s value haven’t been paid.  In these circumstances, it wouldn’t be fair 
for the agreement to end and for Mr M to then keep the car. This would result in him being 
placed in a better position than he would have been in if nothing had gone wrong. With this 
in mind, and in order to move forward, Mr M should sign over the car to Creation. This 
Ref: DRN3621418
6
should occur prior to Creation ending the agreement and removing any negative information 
about the loan from his credit report. After the car is signed over to Creation it will be open to 
them to take the steps they choose in respect of the car.  
my final decision
For the reasons outlined, I uphold Mr M’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
In order for the complaint to be resolved Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

End Mr M’s finance agreement at no cost to him;

Remove any negative information about the loan entered by Creation from Mr M’s credit 
report;
This should be on the condition that Mr M signs over the ownership of the car to Creation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2018.
Tope Adeyemi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3621418
