K821x#14
complaint
Mr K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to him.
background
In 2006, Mr K bought some furniture in a shop and he took out a £2,178 (excluding interest) 
loan over 48 months to pay for it. At the same time, Creation sold him a PPI policy. 
The policy cost £804.26, which was added to the loan and attracted interest. It gave Mr K 
hospitalisation, personal accident and life cover.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr K wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £717.22 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr K’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr K would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. She also thought that Creation shouldn’t have sold the policy to Mr K without 
pointing out to him that it wouldn’t meet his needs because of his pre-existing medical 
conditions (PEMC’s).
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr K was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. And Mr K could’ve cancelled the policy if it 
wasn’t right for him because of his medical conditions.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr K’s complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator that Creation didn’t properly tell Mr K how much the policy cost. I 
say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the credit 
agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Mr K to work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr K would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying a sofa – not on insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr K to understand what the policy was costing 
him.
Ref: DRN3148615
2

The information on the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr K aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months, the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 29.8%. This meant Mr K would pay a substantial extra amount of 
interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr K was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr K would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a small amount over a fairly short term.

I don’t think Mr K would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
I also agree with the adjudicator that Creation didn’t give Mr K enough information about the 
exclusions under the cover relating to pre-existing medical conditions (PEMC’s).
The policy didn’t cover medical conditions that a person had when they bought the policy. 
Mr K had medical conditions when he took out the policy. So I think the policy wouldn’t have 
covered the most likely reason he would have had to claim on it. That means the policy was 
worth a lot less to him. And Creation should’ve clearly pointed it out to Mr K, so he could 
decide if he wanted the policy or not.
Creation says it was enough that the information about medical conditions not being covered 
was  set out within the policy document it gave to Mr K shortly after he agreed to take out the 
policy. And Mr K should’ve cancelled the policy. But I don’t agree. I don’t think Mr K would’ve 
thought he needed to read the full policy document. I think he would’ve expected Creation to 
tell him about the most important things that weren’t covered. 
The loan agreement signed by Mr K didn’t tell him about medical conditions not being 
covered. And even if I accept Mr K was given a policy summary, Creation has said this was 
after Mr K had made his decision to take out the policy. So I don’t think Mr K would’ve 
realised that any medical conditions he already had wouldn’t be covered at the point he 
decided to take out the policy.
From looking at the policy summary, I don’t think the exclusions relating to PEMC’s were 
made clear to him. I accept that the policy summary does mention that PEMC’s are excluded 
under the policy. But this was in small closely worded text and in small type. So I think it 
could easily have been missed by Mr K. 
If Creation had made Mr K aware of this important aspect of the policy, I don’t think he’d 
have taken it out. This is because he’d have realised he couldn’t claim for his medical 
conditions. The policy did provide quite a good level of benefit. But I think it would’ve been 
less important to Mr K once he’d realised he couldn’t claim for the conditions most likely to 
be the cause of any hospitalisation. This means he’s lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong when it sold the policy and it should put this right.
Ref: DRN3148615
3
fair compensation
Mr K borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr K needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr K the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr K paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†.
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr K’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr K compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2015.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148615
