K821x#12
summary of complaint
This complaint concerns a single premium payment protection insurance (“PPI”) policy, sold 
in connection with a personal loan arranged for debt consolidation in 2008. Mr M says that 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold the policy.
my findings
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case, I have 
considered the issues in accordance with our general approach to considering complaints 
about the mis-sale of PPI, which is well-documented. This includes taking into account the 
law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold, and any regulatory rules and 
guidance relevant to the complaint. In essence, the questions I need to consider are:

whether Creation gave Mr M information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he 
was buying;

whether, in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to 
ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Mr M’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which Creation sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether Mr M is worse off as a result; that is, would he have done something 
different - ie not taken out the policy - if there had been no shortcomings.
Creation says its representative would have discussed PPI with Mr M on the telephone when 
completing his loan application. Following this discussion a credit agreement was sent 
including PPI – it says Mr M provisionally accepted to take out PPI during the call.
Unfortunately, Creation has not been able to provide a recording of the call. It says that the 
sale was completed on a non-advised basis. 
Mr M says that he did not agree to take PPI during the initial telephone conversation with the 
representative. When it appeared on the paperwork he received in the post he didn’t raise it 
as a concern because he was eager to secure the funds. 
The documentation available from the time of sale contains evidence that Mr M selected and 
signed to take PPI. So there is some uncertainty about what happened and what was said at 
the time of the sale. 
I cannot be sure whether Creation made a recommendation that Mr M should buy the PPI, or 
merely provided information in order that he could make an informed choice. I do not need to 
make a firm conclusion on this point as even if I accept that Creation provided information 
only, I am not persuaded it did so in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr M could 
make an informed choice. Creation has provided a policy summary, a credit agreement and 
call script it says are relevant to the time the sale took place. I have reviewed these 
documents and having done so, I have identified a significant shortcoming on the part of 
Creation that leads me to conclude the complaint should be upheld and my reasoning is set 
out below.
Ref: DRN3024777
2
I find that while a single premium arrangement like this one can be an expensive way to pay 
for insurance (because the costs are front-loaded and interest is added to the premium over 
the whole term of the loan) the cover is even more expensive if the policy is cancelled before 
the end of the term as a non pro rata refund is given on early cancellation. This is a 
significant limitation on the cover and should have been brought clearly to Mr M’s attention to 
ensure that he was in a position to make an informed choice about whether he wanted to 
take the insurance out.
The call script has a section relating to cancelling the insurance. This covers cancellation 
within the first 30 days, where a full refund will be paid. It explains after 30 days a partial 
refund will be made but contains no information on how this will be calculated. The policy 
summary document simply refers the reader to the policy document for details of 
cancellation rights and does not list it in the sections relating to significant features or 
significant and unusual exclusions or limitations. So, it is not clear to me how Mr M would 
have realised there was important information about the position on early cancellation in the 
documentation that he should read without him being prompted to do so. 
I cannot know for sure what was discussed during the sales call and it is possible that 
Creation brought all of the significant exclusions of the policy to Mr M’s attention. However, 
Creation has not provided enough evidence that would persuade me otherwise. As 
I explained earlier, to make an informed choice, Mr M needed to know about the significant 
features of the PPI. Having carefully considered this matter I am not persuaded it is likely 
that his information needs in respect of the position on early cancellation (which carried a 
significant disadvantage) were met. Overall, I find that Creation failed to inform Mr M 
properly about the position on early cancellation. It did not pay sufficient regard to his 
interests or treat him fairly. 
Even though I have found a significant failing in the way Creation sold the PPI to Mr M, 
I need to be sure that he suffered detriment because of this failing. Having carefully 
considered this question I find it unlikely Mr M would have gone ahead with the policy if he 
had been properly informed.
He took the loan out to consolidate existing debts – he was repaying a loan and credit card 
debt. He says that once his credit cards had been paid off he continued to use them. 
I consider he would have been mindful of consolidating again during the five year term of the 
loan. So I consider the position on the early cancellation of the PPI would have been 
important to him and that he would have been reluctant to enter into an agreement which 
might disadvantage him if he repaid the loan and cancelled the PPI early. 
Bearing in mind the reason Mr M was taking out the loan and the length of the term, it seems 
unlikely to me that he would have agreed to the PPI if he had made a fully informed decision 
and it follows that I uphold this complaint and make an award against Creation.
fair compensation
Under normal circumstances I would direct Creation to put Mr M, as far as is possible, back 
in the position he would have been in if he had not been sold this PPI policy. That is made 
more complicated by the fact that Mr M has been made bankrupt.
In the circumstances, I consider it is fairest for Creation to pay any compensation to Mr M’s 
Official Receiver, for it to allocate to his creditors as it sees fit.
Ref: DRN3024777
3
Creation should, therefore, pay compensation to Mr M’s Official Receiver equivalent to the 
amount required to put his loan back in the position it would have been in had the PPI policy 
not been sold. It is my understanding that the loan account and PPI policy are no longer 
active as a result of Mr M’s bankruptcy. To that end, I require Creation to:
(A)
calculate, and pay Mr M’s Official Receiver: 
­
the amount which was actually outstanding when the loan with PPI (including any 
interest and charges) was written off, net of any PPI premium refund;
­
less the amount Mr M would have paid to settle the loan if he had taken it without 
PPI;
­
plus interest on the difference, at the rate of 8% per year simple, from the date 
the loan was settled to the date the compensation is paid;
(B)
calculate, and pay Mr M’s Official Receiver the amount of the net payments he made 
up to the time of settlement in respect of the PPI (including any interest and charges) 
by comparing:
­
the payments actually made; 
­
the payments which would have applied if Mr M had taken the loan without PPI; 
and
­
add interest on each of these net payments, at the rate of 8% per year simple, 
from the date of each payment to the date the compensation is paid; and
(C)
set out in writing for Mr M’s Official Receiver the details of the calculations under (A) 
and (B).
my final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
In full and final settlement of the complaint I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Mr M’s Official Receiver fair compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress I set 
out above.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024777
