K821x#14
complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to her.
background
In 2005 Mrs K bought goods in a store and she took out a £798.00 loan to pay for them. At 
the same time Creation sold her a PPI policy. The policy cost £260.21, which was added to 
the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mrs K wouldn’t pay interest if she paid 
off the credit before that date. Otherwise she’d pay interest (including £231.98 of interest on 
the policy) over the remaining months of the loan.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs K’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mrs K would have bought the policy if 
it had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mrs K was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs K’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mrs K how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs K to work it out 
for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs K would expect it to be. And I can’t be sure 
it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a shop and her attention was 
on buying the goods she wanted – not on buying insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mrs K better understand what the policy was costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mrs K aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 29.8%. This meant Mrs K would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on 
the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN3668004
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mrs K was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mrs K would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as she was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 

I don’t think Mrs K would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs K’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs K borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So she needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

work out and pay Mrs K the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI

add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs K paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back (the rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†)

if Mrs K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what the 
consumer got from what’s due to them.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation 
must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mrs K’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must pay Mrs K fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2014.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3668004
