K821x#15
complaint
Mr E acquired goods in March 2014 by means of a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd. He complains that Creation have mis-managed his loan, as a result 
of which it is showing his loan account as being in arrears. 
background
Mr E’s agreement included a 12 month interest free period, during which he had the option 
to repay his loan in full without incurring interest charges. If this option was not taken, he 
would need to start making monthly repayments (including interest) when the interest free 
period ended.
Mr E intended to take advantage of this option just before the period end, but he was unable 
to do so in time. There was confusion when a payment Mr E tried to make was recalled by 
his bank, and the start of regular monthly payments (direct debits by Creation of just under 
£60) was delayed by two months. 
The loan agreement required Mr E to make 36 payments, and 31 were made on time from 
June 2015 to December 2017, inclusive. The January 2018 payment (by direct debit) was 
rejected by his bank, as a result of which Creation sent him an Arrears Notice for just under 
£300. 13 days later Mr E made an electronic money transfer of just under the required 
monthly payment to Creation.
Creation sent follow-up correspondence in February 2018 to Mr E, and a Default Notice in 
March 2018 for just under £240. Mr E said:

Creation then phoned and told him that it had not taken the first two monthly 
payments (required under his loan agreement in April and May 2015) 

As a result, he agreed to make four monthly payments

He then received (in early April 2018) a letter from Creation, confirming a temporary 
arrangement to make monthly payments of £0

He concluded from this letter that Creation would not be pursuing his arrears

He wrote back to Creation (in late April 2018), arguing that he was not in arrears 
(except for a small part of the January 2018 payment) – any failures to make 
payments were because it had not directly debited his bank account at the required 
times

He did not receive a reply from Creation to this letter
Creation sent demands for payment to Mr E in June, early July and mid July 2018. Mr E 
complained to Creation in late July 2018.
Creation sent a further demand for payment to Mr E in early September 2018, and a letter in 
mid September 2018 saying its response to his complaint was likely to be delayed. It then 
referred his arrears to a Debt Collection Agency in late September, but it reversed this 
referral in early October 2018. 
In late October 2018, Creation sent Mr E its formal response to his complaint. It confirmed 
that Mr E had agreed to continue making monthly payments, and it apologised for errors in 
its temporary arrangement letter, for which it credited £25 to his loan account. 
Ref: DRN3802837
2
Creation sent Mr E a second Default Notice in January 2019. Mr E told us that, having 
received this communication, he phoned Creation to say:

He had not received its formal response to his complaint

He was not going to pay his arrears, because it had broken its agreement with him 
Creation resent its formal response to Mr E later in January 2019. He replied in 
February 2019, rejecting Creation’s complaint settlement. He referred his complaint to us in 
March 2019.
Creation told us:

The start of regular monthly direct debits was delayed, because the recall by Mr E’s 
bank of his payment intended to take advantage of the interest-free option took quite 
a long time 

Its January 2018 direct debit was probably rejected by Mr E’s bank because there 
were insufficient funds to make this payment

It sent many items of correspondence to Mr E, starting in January 2018 when its 
direct debit was rejected, requesting him to contact it in order to arrange payments 
Our investigator concluded that Mr E had been unaware of his arrears until January 2018. 
She accepted that Creation had not caused the delayed start of monthly payments in 2015. 
But she thought it should have contacted him sooner than 2018, to discuss these arrears. 
She felt that, had it done so, he would have had the opportunity to bring his account into 
balance. 
Our investigator recommended that Creation should:

Arrange with Mr E a suitable payment plan to clear his arrears

Ensure that no adverse information was recorded on Mr E’s credit file in relation to 
the April 2015, May 2015, February 2018 and March 2018 monthly payments

Pay £100 directly to Mr E, for the inconvenience he had experienced
Mr E disagreed with our investigator’s recommendations, saying:

By not taking the first two direct debits, Creation broke its agreement with him 

Creation waited until 2018 before telling him about his arrears – it then threatened 
and bullied him about them

In April 2018, Creation misled him into believing that it would not pursue him for 
these arrears – and the compensation it paid into his loan account for misleading him 
was derisory
Creation also disagreed with our investigator’s recommendations, saying:

When Mr E’s interest-free payment was recalled by his bank, it waived just under 
£900 in interest payments,  and allowed him to repay only the acquisition price of his 
goods (just over £1,260)

Mr E should have been more pro-active in managing his account – if there was 
anything he was unsure about, its call centre was there to help
And so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN3802837
3
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find that I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
I agree with our investigator that Creation did not cause the delayed start of monthly 
payments in 2015. I can understand as well that it may have stopped attempting direct debits 
after January 2018, because the payment in that month was rejected, and it was asking Mr E 
to contact it to arrange payments (which he failed to do). 
But I also agree with our investigator that Creation should have contacted Mr E sooner than 
2018, to discuss the resulting arrears. Similarly, its spring 2018 phone call to him (to discuss 
his account and to explain his arrears) should have been made earlier in the year. In 
addition, it appears not to have responded to Mr E’s April 2018 letter, and its response to his 
July 2018 formal complaint was delayed. 
Although I think it would be unfair and unreasonable to conclude that Creation has broken its 
agreement with Mr E, because of these mistakes. 
I disagree with Mr E that Creation threatened and bullied him about his arrears. Creation 
acknowledges that it sent many items of correspondence to Mr E, starting in January 2018, 
requesting him to contact it in order to arrange payments. I think the situation would have 
been improved, if Mr E had contacted Creation by phone before January 2019.
In these circumstances, I share our investigator’s views that:

No adverse information should be recorded on Mr E’s credit file, relating to 
April/May 2105 and February/March 2018

But Mr E remains responsible for making the (four) outstanding monthly payments
I am having difficulties with Creation’s assertion that it has already waived nearly £900 of 
interest charges. Had it done so, Mr E would have repaid his loan (of just over £1,260, 
excluding interest charges) after about 21.3 monthly payments (of just under £60) – Mr E 
has already made the equivalent of 32 monthly payments.
But Creation is under no obligation to waive these charges – although its failure to do so 
means that the only compensation it has paid to Mr E for the inconvenience he has 
experienced is £25.
There are technical notes about distress and inconvenience on our public website, in which 
we describe:

how we decide whether to award compensation for distress, inconvenience, trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering

how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate

cases where we have awarded compensation
I feel that further compensation of £100 in this instance (as recommended by our 
investigator) is appropriate, given the circumstances of Mr E’s complaint. It is consistent with 
our approach to awarding compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.
Ref: DRN3802837
4
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:
1.
To arrange with Mr E a suitable payment plan to clear his arrears
2.
To ensure that no adverse information was recorded on Mr E’s credit file in relation to 
the April 2015, May 2015, February 2018 and March 2018 monthly payments
3.
To pay £100 directly to Mr E, for the inconvenience he has experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3802837
