K821x#14
complaint
Mr K has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t refunded money he 
paid for an alarm system. The company providing maintenance and monitoring for the alarm 
stopped trading in 2011.
Mr K is represented by a claims company.
background
In March 2009 Mr K took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation for an alarm system. 
The total package included monitoring and maintenance of the alarm. In 2011, the provider 
stopped trading. On his behalf, a claims company submitted a claim to Creation that Mr K 
had been misled into getting the alarm fitted.
Creation didn’t think the contract included the alarm monitoring and maintenance. They 
turned down Mr K’s claim. His claims company brought his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our adjudicator told Creation she felt the total amount included the servicing and monitoring 
of the alarm system. Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, she thought it was 
fair Creation refund Mr K money that he’d paid since March 2011. They should add 8% 
interest to that amount. Mr K’s credit record should also be amended.
Creation thought other views they’d seen on similar cases suggested the outcome should be 
different. This case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says, under a specific set of circumstances, a 
consumer may get a refund of money paid to a supplier by a credit provider. However there 
is only a valid claim under section 75 if there’s enough evidence to show the supplier:

said something about the goods or service being sold that wasn’t true; and

this is what made the customer enter into the contract; or

had broken the terms of the contract.
When we look at complaints where somebody has a section 75 claim, we take into account 
the relevant law. However we decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as 
statute requires. So I can ask Creation to refund money to Mr K if I’m satisfied the supplier 
didn’t do what they said they would.
There is no dispute the original supplier of the alarm system ceased trading in March 2011: 
just two years after Mr K took out the loan. They weren’t then able to provide him with 
monitoring and maintenance.
Creation gave us a copy of the loan agreement which showed Mr K took out a loan for 
£3,750 for an “alarm system only”. They feel he is receiving maintenance and monitoring as 
a free add-on and therefore they have no liability. I don’t agree.
Ref: DRN3661379
2
Mr K’s marketing material shows he signed up “24 hour protection for you and your family”. 
He also has an “Ultimate Unconditional Guarantee”. And in case this wasn’t enough, his 
order states that he’s paying a total package price of £3,850 including “5 yr maintenance + 
monitoring package”.
It’s worth noting some of the written evidence in this case is difficult to read. For example the 
copies of the loan agreement and supplier order provided by Mr K’s claims company are not 
legible. Creation was able to give us a copy of the loan agreement that was clearer. But it 
seems the supplier asked Mr K and his wife to complete at least three different loan 
agreements. Some have different wording.
I believe monitoring and maintenance is a central part of what Mr K was buying. The price, 
£3,850, Mr K paid is very similar to what I know other people paid to the same supplier. I can 
certainly see this is what attracted him to buying the alarm in the first place.
Overall I am satisfied a breach of contract took place when the supplier was unable to 
provide the maintenance and monitoring service. And it’s fair to ask Creation to refund Mr K. 
I broadly agree with our adjudicator about what she thought was fair redress. Creation 
should refund Mr K money he’s paid them since March 2011, and cancel the credit 
agreement. 8% interest should be added to the money he gets back.
I am concerned that Creation firstly never responded to our adjudicator and then said we 
weren’t following our normal approach. Creation knows that we review and treat cases 
individually. If anything we have upheld practically all cases where this supplier has been 
involved and I’m satisfied Creation know this.
This has meant this case was not resolved as early as it could have been. I believe this has 
caused Mr K inconvenience. It’s fair and reasonable Creation pay him £200 for this.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, my final decision is to uphold Mr K’s complaint. I instruct 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:

Cancel Mr K’s fixed-sum loan agreement with immediate effect, ensuring that any future 
liability is waived;

Refund all monthly payments he has made under this agreement since March 2011;

Add interest of 8% simple to those monthly amounts from the date of the debits from 
Mr K’s account to the settlement date;

Ensure that his credit record shows this debt as settled; and

Pay him £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2015.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3661379
