K822x
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were misled about the cost and benefits of a solar panel 
system they bought using a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
background 
Mrs B bought the panels on 29 November 2014. She says the salesmen told her that they 
would reduce their energy bills. And they would receive Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments. So 
the panels would cost them around £300 a year for the first three years. After that they would 
make a profit. But Mrs B thinks the figures she was given to induce them to enter into the 
contract were incorrect, and the benefits of the system was oversold. 
Mrs B also says she was pressurised into signing the contract quickly and into waiving the 
cooling off period so that they could benefit from the higher FIT rate. But they missed out on 
the higher rate in the end because of delays caused by the solar panel provider.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs B’s complaint should be upheld. She said that it’s not in 
dispute that the solar panel provider didn’t register Mr and Mrs B for the FIT before the rate 
reduced. This meant that they lost out on the higher FIT payments they were told they would 
benefit from. 
Our adjudicator didn’t think that Mr and Mrs B would’ve bought the panels if the solar panel 
provider hadn’t given them £300 (to cover their payments under the contract until the FIT 
payments began) or if they hadn’t been told they would get the higher FIT rate. So she said 
Creation should pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between the FIT payments they received 
and the FIT payments they would’ve got if the solar panel provider hadn’t caused the delays. 
That came to £2,198.83.
Creation agreed to this. Mrs B said she was happy to accept that amount in partial 
settlement of her complaint. But she also wanted us to consider what she has told us about 
the salesmen giving them incorrect figures, and overselling the benefits of the system. Our 
adjudicator told Mrs B that she hadn’t asked Creation to do anything to resolve this aspect of 
their complaint because she hasn’t been provided with the figures Mrs B refers to. So she 
couldn’t be sure that Mrs B was given those figures.
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have agreed to accept the £2,198.83 Creation has now offered to resolve the 
FIT aspect of her complaint. So the remaining point for me to consider is whether the solar 
panel provider gave Mr and Mrs B incorrect figures to induce her to enter into the contract, 
and whether it oversold the benefits of the solar panel system. 
I can hold Creation responsible for the solar panel provider’s actions if I think it made a false 
statement about the facts that led directly to Mr and Mrs B entering into the contract. 
Ref: DRN3673494
2
Creation has provided us with the figures it says Mr and Mrs B were given during the sales 
process. And we’ve passed them on to Mrs B. But Mrs B is adamant that she was given 
different figures. I don’t underestimate Mrs B’s strength of feeling about this point. She has 
told us that two different salesmen separately showed her different figures. So she thinks 
they must be available. But Creation and the solar panel provider both say that they don’t 
have any other figures. And I can’t make them provide me with something they say they 
don’t have. 
In the circumstances, I can’t be sure that Mr and Mrs B were oversold the benefits of the 
solar panel system. So I don’t think it would be fair for me to require Creation to compensate 
Mr and Mrs B for this aspect of their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs B £2,198.83 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2016.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673494
