K820x#13
complaint
Miss M complains that she was not made aware of the fees when she entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
When Miss M settled the loan early, she was charged a £25 administration fee and 4% on 
the total amount because she paid by credit card.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the fees had been charged in accordance with the terms of the agreement which Miss M 
signed.
Miss M responded to say, in summary, that she only received one page of paperwork when 
she agreed the loan and that the automated call system she used when she made the 
payment did not make the charges clear.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The paperwork that Miss M says she received when she agreed the loan sets out the fees 
payable. I consider it to be reasonably clear that, if Miss M chose to repay the loan in one 
single payment by the agreed date, she would be charged an administration fee of £25. And 
that she would be charged 4% of the total amount if she chose to pay by credit card.
Miss M says the automated phone service that she used to make the payment did not make 
it clear that the 4% charge only applied to credit card payments and that she could have 
made a payment by other means without incurring the charge. She says it’s unreasonable to 
refer her to the terms of an agreement that she signed six months before she made the 
payment. I understand her strength of feeling on this matter, but I consider she would have 
needed to refer to the agreement to check the amount she needed to pay and by when. The 
agreement was clear that the charge applied to payments made with a credit card and that 
there were alternative methods of payment available if she did not want to pay this charge. 
And. when she made the payment, she was advised of the charge applicable to her chosen 
payment method. 
For the reasons I have explained, I conclude that Creation Consumer Finance did make 
Miss M aware of the fees.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2015.
Ref: DRN4856625
2
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4856625
