K822x
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
Mr M was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as P, which supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a subsequent meeting at his home, Mr M agreed to enter into a 
contract for P to supply and install a solar panel system costing £9,940. To fund this he also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr M made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr M that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that 
his monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income 
as well as any savings he’d make by using the electricity generated by the panels rather 
than buying it from his energy provider. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher than any income and savings Mr M had made.
In its initial final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t have enough information to 
conclude that the benefits of the solar panel system had been misrepresented to Mr M. 
Because of this, it didn’t uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had worked out the potential income and savings to Mr M over the term 
of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan to ensure that he didn’t pay any more 
than this over the original 10 year term. As Mr M had settled his loan early this meant 
Creation offered to refund directly to him around £2,900. This was made up of any 
overpayments Mr M had made as well as 8% simple interest. Creation also offered to pay 
him £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators looked into the offer put forward by Creation. She was satisfied that 
it was fair. Mr M, via his representative, didn’t agree. It had provided its own calculation as to 
how the refund should be calculated and worked out that Mr M should receive a refund of 
around £7,000. 
Our investigator recently wrote to both Creation and Mr M’s representative. She explained 
that as Mr M had refinanced his loan with Creation with another provider that Creation 
should also refund the proportion of interest that he was charged that relates to the amount 
he used to pay off the Creation loan.
Neither party responded to the investigators further view so the case has been passed to me 
to review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says that he was cold-called and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the solar 
panels would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mr M dispute that P 
Ref: DRN4740413
2
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably and with minimum formality. In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
Self-funding offer
I’ve considered whether it would be fair to put Mr M back in the position he would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. I think the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr M in a position where the solar panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan. By allowing him to keep the panels, I’m satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Mr M’s representative accepts that making the panels self-funding over the original term of 
the loan is fair. However, it doesn’t agree with the method that has been used and has put 
forward its own calculation which it says provides a fairer outcome.
I’ve reviewed the calculation that Mr M’s representative has put forward. I’ve noted that its 
calculation doesn’t include any electricity savings.
So, I’ve gone on to consider whether it’s fair and reasonable to take electricity savings into 
account when deciding fair compensation. I think it’s fair to take into account the electricity 
generated by the solar panel system. On the one hand Mr M has to pay their loan and for 
any electricity used in addition to that generated by the solar panels. And on the other, he 
can off-set those payments by the FIT income payments and the savings associated with the 
electricity generated by the solar panels. I consider it would be unfair to ignore the electricity 
generated and used by Mr M when calculating fair compensation. 
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel system. This methodology is based on the 
actual performance and estimated future performance of Mr M’s solar panel system.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr M’s solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone spends in their home and 
is able to use, or self-consume, the electricity generated by their solar panels. It is self-
evident that determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is difficult. 
I’m satisfied that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. I’m 
of the view that this takes into account changing consumer occupancy habits over the 
lifetime of the solar panels. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m satisfied it is highly likely that 
Mr M will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a reduction in his electricity bills 
because of the electricity generated by the panels and the FIT payments.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation. These include electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
Ref: DRN4740413
3
actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mr M’s representative has also included a payment of £1,000 to cover the cost of replacing 
the inverter, in its calculation of what it considers to be fair compensation.
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of 
the solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for the consumer is to make the 
solar panel self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid 
Mr M is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar panel system by way of 
savings and FIT income going forward. In addition, as Mr M has settled his Creation loan 
and will get back a lump sum to cover the overpayments together with the interest.
Based on the available information I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Mr M will be able to use his compensation payment to pay 
for a replacement inverter if necessary. 
Because of the reasons I’ve given above I’m satisfied that Creation’s offer to make the 
panels self-funding over the term of the loan is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refinanced loan
Mr M has refinanced his Creation loan with a new lender. At the time he did this he also 
borrowed some additional money for a new purchase.
Our investigator thought that Creation, in addition to its offer to make the panels self-funding, 
should also refund Mr M the proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan that 
related to the amount he used to pay off his Creation loan.
I’ve thought carefully on this point. Mr M agreed to enter into the contract with P on the basis 
that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and any savings 
associated by using the electricity generated by his panels rather than buying it from his 
energy provider.  And this hasn’t happened. Neither Creation nor Mr M dispute that P had 
misrepresented the benefits of the solar panels and I’m satisfied it was this 
misrepresentation that induced him to enter into the contract. 
I’m satisfied that if Mr M’s solar panel system had been self-funding, he wouldn’t have 
refinanced the Creation loan as his solar panel system would have been performing as he 
had expected and agreed it would. Therefore he wouldn’t have incurred the additional 
interest he was charged. Therefore, I’m satisfied that the additional interest he has been 
charged forms part of the overall cost of the solar panel system and he should be refunded 
this in addition to the self-funding offer.
As the solar panel system wasn’t self-funding Mr M has been charged additional interest. So, 
I’m satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Creation to refund him the proportion of interest 
he was charged on the amount he borrowed to pay off the Creation loan for the reason I 
have explained above.
Ref: DRN4740413
4
Summary
In summary I’m satisfied that the offer put forward by Creation to make Mr M’s solar panels 
self-funding over the original term of the loan is fair.
In addition to its offer, Creation should also refund Mr M the proportion of interest that he 
was charged on his new loan that relates to the amount he borrowed to settle his Creation 
loan.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didn’t 
happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and I’ll consequently make an award of 
£100 to cover this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr M’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mr M to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr M from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr M’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of the settlement,

pay Mr M the proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan that relates to 
the amount he borrowed to settle his Creation loan; and,

pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd consider that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN4740413
