K822x
complaint
Mrs A has complained to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) about its response to 
a claim she made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background 
In April 2016 Mrs A purchased a storage battery for her existing solar panel system.  The 
battery cost £3,000 and Mrs A paid for it using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Around a year later a complaint was made to the supplier, a company called Green Energy, 
and to Creation.  Mrs A’s husband, Mr A, had received an electric shock from the battery and 
said he didn’t know how long it had been faulty, but had concerns for the safety of their 
grandchildren.
Green Energy confirmed the battery was faulty and required repair, and agreed to return it 
within three weeks.  Mr and Mrs A say it took two months for the battery to be repaired and 
ready to be reinstalled, but ultimately they declined the reinstallation and they’d lost faith in 
the battery and were still concerned about safety.  
Creation is considering Mrs A’s claim as under s.75 as it’s responsible for 
misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same extent as the supplier in certain 
circumstances.  It responded stating that Green Energy had repaired the battery and the 
only reason it hadn’t been reinstalled is because Mrs A no longer wanted it.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs A referred a complaint to this Service.  One of our 
investigators reviewed everything and recommended that the complaint be upheld.
In summary, the investigator concluded the battery wasn’t of satisfactory quality and Mrs A 
should be entitled to reject it.  To put things right he suggested the loan agreement be 
cancelled and any payments made by Mrs A refunded, along with the reinstatement of the 
solar panel system to its original condition.
Creation didn’t agree with the assessment and highlighted that Green Energy had repaired 
the battery and tried to arrange reinstallation of the battery as it was required to – but 
Mr and Mrs A didn’t respond to numerous contacts attempts.
As no agreement could be reached I’ve been asked to review everything afresh and make a 
decision on the complaint.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
When considering if Creation acted fairly when dealing with Mrs A’s claim, I must take 
relevant law into account.  As I’ve set out above, under s.75 Creation is jointly and severally 
liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation with the supplier, Green Energy, under 
certain circumstances.  One of the conditions is that there’s a direct relationship between the 
debtor (Mrs A), the creditor (Creation) and the supplier (Green Energy).
Ref: DRN4475478
2
I’m satisfied in this instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hasn’t been broken, and 
Creation has not disputed this.  So the key issue is whether there has been a breach of 
contract, and whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with the s.75 
claim.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) is relevant and was implied into the contract when 
Mrs A purchased the battery.  The CRA sets out that goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality, and meet the standard a reasonable person would consider, taking account of any 
description, the price and other relevant circumstances.
I’m aware Creation has explained it considers the fault with the battery didn’t emerge until a 
year after installation.  It’s also highlighted that Green Energy completed the repair in a 
reasonable timescale and without significant inconvenience to Mrs A.  But Mrs A didn’t 
respond to Green Energy’s contact attempts to arrange reinstallation – and ultimately 
declined the battery being fitted.  Creation said this was unjustified and it’s clear that Mrs A 
wanted a refund rather than a fix for the fault.  So I’ve considered this.
Mrs A purchased the battery as an addition to her existing system, and it was supplied new 
and installed by Green Energy.  Given the type of product, it’s reasonable to expect the 
battery would work to a satisfactory standard for a number of years.  Having become faulty 
within 12 months, I don’t consider the battery sold to Mrs A was of satisfactory quality.
I understand that given the battery had been installed and likely working for the best part of a 
year, it is appropriate for Green Energy to have been given the opportunity to repair and 
reinstall it.  But being mindful of the nature of the fault, and that it gave Mr A an electric 
shock, I can understand why Mrs A says she’s lost faith in the battery and still has safety 
concerns.
Creation says that such batteries are usually installed in lofts or fitted in a part of the home 
that isn’t accessed by family members.  So it’s unlikely Mrs A or her grandchildren would be 
at risk.  I’ve considered this point, and what I think to be fair overall.  People access different 
areas of their home and shouldn’t be restricted from doing so because of the risk of an 
electric shock from faulty equipment.  Whilst I appreciate the battery had been repaired, I 
also understand why Mrs A had strong reservations about its safety.
Having taken everything into account, I consider it reasonable for Mrs A to refuse 
reinstallation of the battery and so I uphold her complaint.
putting things right
As I’ve concluded Mrs A is reasonably entitled to reject the battery, I think it’s fair that she 
receives a full refund and is put back in the position she was in before purchasing it.  I've 
considered whether any allowance should be made for the benefit Mrs A had from the 
battery whilst installed – but as I can’t be certain how long it was working properly for I’ve 
made no deduction.
So fair compensation would be for Creation to:

End the fixed loan agreement.

Refund all payments made by Mrs A towards the loan, along with 8% simple interest 
per annum from the date each payment was made, to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN4475478
3

Arrange and pay for the solar panel system to be returned to its original condition – 
as it was before the battery upgrade was installed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs A’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
and direct it to pay the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4475478
