K820x#14
complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) didn’t update his account 
details for an incoming direct debit, resulting in a missed payment, charges, and a record on 
his credit file. He’s also unhappy with the way this matter was dealt with. 
background
Mr L has a loan with Creation which he repays monthly. Mr L told us that he changed his 
bank account so no longer used the one that his direct debits were being paid from. He said 
that all his direct debits were moved across to his new bank account through a switching 
process, including the one with Creation. 
Creation said it had received notice that the direct debit had been cancelled but hadn’t 
received any amendment details. This information didn’t reach it until 9 January 2019, which 
was after the payment had fallen due and after Mr L had been sent a text to notify him of the 
arrears on his account. So a payment was missed. As per the terms and conditions of the 
loan agreement, Creation applied a charge of £30 and it was noted on Mr L’s credit file.
After Creation notified Mr L of the situation, the account was brought up to date. Because it 
acknowledged Mr L’s intention to pay, Creation removed the charge and amended the credit 
file. 
Mr L is unhappy with a phone conversation he had with Creation about this matter. He feels 
as though he was treated like a criminal, thinks Creation needs to take responsibility for what 
happened, and was unhappy with its attitude towards him. As well as the £30 charge being 
removed and credit file amended, which have both already happened, he’s asked for 
compensation for the stress caused.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didn’t think Creation needed to do anything 
further. But Mr L disagreed. He said this was the only direct debit that hadn’t transferred 
properly. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr L, I don’t uphold his complaint – I’ll 
explain why. 
I’ve seen evidence from Creation that the direct debit with the original account details was 
cancelled. But I haven’t seen information to suggest that the new details were provided to it 
but that it had failed to update its systems correctly. 
As Creation hadn’t received payment by the due date, Creation charged £30 – which is in 
line with the terms and conditions of the agreement – and said it would be noted on the 
credit file, which it was also allowed to do.
Creation has provided our service with a copy of the phone call in which this matter was 
discussed. I note that, within this, Mr L referred to three other businesses where there had 
been issues with the direct debits being switched. So this also doesn’t seem to be an issue 
Ref: DRN4543896
2
which only affected the payment to Creation. But, Creation, as a gesture of goodwill, 
removed the charge and amended the credit file as it recognised Mr L’s intention to pay. 
Given that I can’t see that Creation has made an error, I don’t think it would be fair to ask it 
to do anything further here. 
I also note that Mr L was unhappy with the way he was spoken to in the phone call. Having 
listened to it in full, I’m satisfied with the way in which the adviser spoke. I didn’t find her tone 
to be inappropriate, nor do I think there was anything untoward about what she actually said 
to Mr L. 
So, overall, I can’t safely say that Creation has done anything wrong here and I won’t be 
asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision before 20 December 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4543896
