K822x
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him interest under the terms
of a fixed sum loan agreement. He says there’s been a breach of contract because he hasn’t 
received the goods he ordered.
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is 
attached. I was minded to uphold the complaint. I didn’t think it was an acceptable resolution 
simply for Creation not to charge Mr C for the part of the order that he didn’t receive, 
because I didn’t think this could be treated as a separate item. I concluded the goods he’d 
ordered hadn’t been delivered and that Creation should either arrange to deliver them now 
or that Mr C should be able to cancel the agreement at no cost to himself.
Mr C agreed with my provisional decision.
Creation referred my provisional decision to the retailer who didn’t think it was reasonable. It 
said, in summary, that:

Mr C decided he wanted to cancel the rest of the order and he put this in writing. It’s not 
fair to unwind that decision just because Mr C has changed his mind.

Mr C should pay for what he has received. If he wants the extra carpet, he should have 
to pay for it. And if the extra carpet isn’t delivered, Mr C shouldn’t get the carpet he 
already has for free.

Mr C should settle the finance agreement for what he’s received and place an order for 
the remaining carpet outside of this contract.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation did not provide any comment in response to my provisional decision, except for 
passing on what the retailer said. Presumably both businesses are in agreement. I have 
considered carefully what the retailer said, but it does not change my conclusion. Let me 
explain why.
Mr C ordered the carpet in February 2016. Although he wanted to receive the carpet in two 
separate deliveries, the fixed sum loan agreement was for the entire order. He didn’t receive 
part of this order. So there’s been a breach of contract by the retailer. 
Ref: DRN4554962
2
Mr C phoned the retailer on numerous occasions and, when it didn’t resolve the matter, he 
wrote to it in December to complain. Receiving no reply, he wrote on 10 January 2017 to 
complain again and to say that he wanted to pay for what had been delivered and would not 
be paying for the rest. He said, understandably, that he’d lost faith in the retailer. The retailer 
responded by crediting the fixed sum loan agreement with £206.93, for the part of the order 
that wasn’t delivered. But if it had engaged with Mr C when he first contacted it, or after 
receipt of his letters, it would have known that all he wanted was the remaining carpet 
delivered and I think it was reasonable that the retailer could and should have taken action to 
resolve this at a much earlier date.
When Mr C complained to Creation, it was clear that he wanted the remaining carpet 
delivered – and that he was willing to pay for it. And I agree that he shouldn’t have to pay 
any interest under the terms of the fixed sum loan agreement – provided he pays what he 
owes within eight weeks of the carpet being delivered.
Unfortunately, the retailer has still not said whether it can fulfil the order. It says, if it can’t 
deliver the remaining carpet then Mr C shouldn’t get the carpet that has been delivered for 
free. But if the remaining carpet isn’t delivered, then what he ordered hasn’t been supplied 
and the fixed sum loan agreement should be cancelled and all payments returned to Mr C. 
As outlined in my provisional decision, Creation is entitled to the return of the goods. But as 
this is a carpet which has already been fitted, I don’t think it would be fair or practical to do 
so.
The retailer said Mr C should have to place a separate order for the remaining carpet. I don’t 
see any reason for him to have to do this. Indeed, I find Mr C has done enough to try to 
resolve this matter over many months and it’s really not clear to me why the retailer can’t 
deliver what it contracted to. But this complaint is against Creation and not the retailer. So 
I can’t order the retailer to deliver the carpet or to pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset it’s caused. I can order Creation, however, to work with the retailer to resolve the 
complaint to Mr C’s satisfaction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should:
1.
Work with the retailer to ensure the remaining carpet is delivered.
2.
Allow Mr C to pay the sum he owes, without any interest charges, within eight weeks of 
the day the remaining carpet is delivered.
3.
If the retailer is unable to deliver the carpet within eight weeks of Mr C’s acceptance of 
my decision, then the finance agreement should be cancelled and the debt written off. 
Any payments made by Mr C should be refunded to him.
4.
In either case, Creation should remove any adverse information from Mr C’s credit file.
Ref: DRN4554962
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2017.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554962
4
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him interest under the terms of a fixed 
sum loan agreement. He says there’s been a breach of contract because he hasn’t received the 
goods he ordered.
background
In February 2016 Mr C arranged to pay for carpet under a buy now pay later arrangement using 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. He ordered the same carpet for several rooms in his 
house, including the hallway and stairs. He paid for fitting separately and this did not form part of 
the finance agreement. The carpet for the rooms was delivered and fitted. But there were 
problems with the carpet for the hallway and stairs. When the 12 months interest free period 
came to an end, Mr C hadn’t received the carpet, so he refused to pay the amount owed.
Creation says the carpet has been delivered but, in recognition of the problems in delivery, the 
retailer refunded £206.93 for the value of the hall and stairs carpet. It says the remaining carpet 
was delivered and this needs to be paid for. Mr C didn’t make payment by 13 February 2017, so 
interest is now being applied to the account.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had done enough to put things right. She concluded 
Creation should liaise with the retailer to provide Mr C with the carpet. She thought the interest 
should be removed from the finance agreement and Mr C should be allowed to repay it within 
eight weeks of receiving the carpet, before any interest is applied.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the retailer had delivered the carpet in March and the refund had 
been applied to the account – so Mr C received the carpet for free, he just needs to arrange for 
fitting.
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C ordered the same carpet for several rooms in his house. One part of that order was arranged 
to be delivered and fitted at a later date. It seems that, because the retailer says it didn’t hear from 
Mr C, it got rid of the carpet without letting him know. It was re-ordered and another delivery date 
was arranged. But the delivery wasn’t made because the driver was involved in an accident. 
During one conversation with the retailer, Mr C was so frustrated that he told it to cancel the order. 
This was when the refund was applied to his account. The retailer says the carpet was delivered 
anyway – but I don’t find that it was because Mr C clearly hasn’t received it.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer equal right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or services or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr C hasn’t received all of his order. Creation says Mr C hasn’t been charged for the part of the 
order that he hasn’t received. This might have been a reasonable resolution if Mr C could’ve 
sourced the carpet elsewhere. But he specifically ordered it at the same time as the carpet for the 
rest of his house because he wanted it to match. For that reason, I don’t think this part of the order 
can be treated as a separate item – I find that the goods he ordered, financed using the fixed sum 
loan agreement, weren’t delivered. I conclude there are two alternative ways of resolving this 
complaint:
Ref: DRN4554962
5
1.
Creation should, in liaison with the retailer, arrange for the remaining carpet to be delivered 
– and Mr C will have to make his own arrangements for fitting if the retailer’s fitters can’t fit it. 
Mr C didn’t pay what he owed under the finance agreement by the 13 February 2017, but I 
can understand why – he hadn’t received everything he’d ordered. So I agree with the 
investigator that he should be given eight weeks from when the carpet is delivered to pay 
the balance due without any interest charge.
2.
Alternatively, Mr C should be able to cancel the agreement at no cost to himself. Whilst in 
such circumstances Creation would usually be entitled to the return of the goods, as the 
carpets have been fitted, this is not practical – or fair – in this case.
Mr C has always been willing to pay for the carpet – but didn’t want to do so until it was all delivered 
– and he does want the remaining carpet, so I would hope Creation and the retailer can fulfil this.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. I am minded to order Creation
Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Work with the retailer to ensure the remaining carpet is delivered.
2.
Allow Mr C to pay the sum he owes, without any interest charges, within eight weeks of the 
day the remaining carpet is delivered.
3.
If the retailer is unable to deliver the carpet within eight weeks of Mr C’s acceptance of my 
decision, then the finance agreement should be cancelled and the debt written off.
4.
In either case, Creation should remove any adverse information from Mr C’s credit file.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4554962
