K821x#12
complaint
Mr G’s mother, Mrs G, complains, on behalf of her son, that Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited entered into a finance agreement with him, even though he does not have the 
mental capacity to understand what he signed.
background
In 2010, Mr G accompanied a friend to a furniture store where she bought a sofa. Mrs G 
says that when the friend was turned down for credit, she asked Mr G to sign the paperwork. 
Mr G’s friend paid him back for the deposit and five of the direct debits, but Mr G made two 
further payments himself before Mrs G discovered what had happened and cancelled the 
direct debits. Mr G is now being pursued for the outstanding balance and his credit file has 
been affected.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
evidence from Mr G’s clinical psychologist was sufficient for her to conclude that staff at the 
furniture store would have recognised Mr G’s learning disability if they had tried to explain 
the finance agreement to him. She recommended that Creation should write off the 
outstanding balance, amend his credit file and refund the two payments he made plus 
interest on those payments at 8% simple.
Creation responded to say, in summary, that it cannot discriminate against a customer with a 
disability. It said that Mr G had entered the store “with the intention of purchasing furniture” 
and that he had demonstrated his mental capacity by the buying decisions that he had to 
make. In addition, Creation said that the various payments that he had made were evidence 
that he is capable of managing his finances.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Creation says that it cannot discriminate against a customer on the basis of his 
disability, but the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) expects creditors to take appropriate steps to 
determine whether the borrower is able to make an informed borrowing decision. I have 
seen the report from Mr G’s clinical psychologist and she says that “it is apparent very 
quickly when talking to [Mr G] that he has difficulties”.
Furthermore, I note that Creation has said that Mr G had already demonstrated his mental 
capacity by the buying decisions he made before signing the finance agreement. However, 
Mrs G says that it was Mr G’s friend who made the buying decisions and that Mr G was only 
involved when the friend was turned down for credit. He did not enter the store “with the 
intention of purchasing furniture”. I have seen the delivery note for the furniture and, as it 
was not delivered to Mr G’s home, I am satisfied that the sofa was chosen by his friend and 
that Mr G was not involved in the buying decision.
Mrs G also says that her son was only asked to sign the paperwork. She says that the sales 
representative had already been through the agreement with Mr G’s friend and did not 
subsequently explain it to Mr G. I am persuaded that this is the case as, according to the 
clinical psychologist, had the sales representative done so “it would have been very obvious 
that [Mr G] was different to usual customers and that he did not understand the process”.
Ref: DRN4046370
2
Finally, I acknowledge that Creation say that by making the payments, Mr G has 
demonstrated that he is capable of managing his finances. I am not persuaded that this is 
the case. Although Mr G made the initial payment and signed a direct debit agreement, 
I cannot conclude that this is evidence that Mr G understood the terms of the finance 
agreement. 
In summary, I am satisfied that the furniture store, as agents of Creation, knew, or ought to 
have reasonably known, that Mr G lacked the capacity to enter into the contract and, 
therefore, under OFT guidance, I consider that the contract is voidable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:

Write off the outstanding balance on Mr G’s account

Remove any adverse information from Mr G’s credit file

Refund the last two payments on the account, plus interest at 8% simple per annum 
from the payment date to the settlement date.
If Creation Consumer Finance Limited considers it has to deduct tax from the interest 
element of my award, it should send Mr G a tax deduction certificate when it pays him. He 
can then use that certificate to try to reclaim the tax, if he is entitled to do so.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4046370
