K821x#14
complaint
Mrs J says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy to her. 
background
In 2005 Mrs J bought furniture in a shop. Creation arranged a loan for her and also sold her 
a PPI policy. Mrs J borrowed extra to pay for the policy, which was repaid – with interest – 
over the loan term.   
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs J’s complaint, because Creation didn’t have enough evidence to 
show that Mrs J had agreed to buy the PPI. And the adjudicator also didn’t think Creation 
had made the cost clear enough.
Creation said Mrs J would have had to tick and sign the loan agreement to say she wanted 
PPI. And it said the cost was shown in the loan agreement and other paperwork it gave her.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I uphold Mrs J’s complaint.
Creation doesn’t have Mrs J’s loan agreement any more. And she doesn’t have it either. 
Based on other cases I’ve seen, I think it’s likely Creation would have asked Mrs J to tick a 
box and sign a separate part of the loan agreement to say she wanted to take out the policy. 
But Creation can’t show that Mrs J did tick and sign. So it can’t show that she agreed to buy 
the policy. This is a significant failing and is enough reason to uphold this complaint.
But I’m also not satisfied that Creation made Mrs J clearly aware of the cost of the policy. 
Again based on other cases I’ve seen, I think it’s unlikely the loan agreement would have set 
out the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wouldn’t be reasonable to have expected Mrs J to 
work out that figure for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about 
the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.
Creation has provided the statement of price, which did set out the interest. But it was on 
page two of the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs J would expect it to be. 
And I can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention; particularly when she was in a shop and 
her attention was on buying furniture, not on buying insurance. 
The PPI interest was almost as much as the cost of the policy itself. This was unusual. 
I think Mrs J would have seen this as important information when deciding whether to buy 
the policy; especially as she was borrowing a modest amount for a non-essential item. 
I don’t think Mrs J would have bought the policy if Creation had made her properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost. I don’t think she would have seen it as offering good value, 
given her circumstances. 
Ref: DRN4376417
2
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs J’s complaint. 
what Creation should do to put things right
Mrs J borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Mrs J needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs J the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs J paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Mrs J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs J’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mrs J the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2015.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4376417
