K822x
complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to him. 
background 
In 2005 Mr E took out a loan to pay for furniture. At the same time Creation sold him a PPI 
policy. This was added to the loan and repaid over the loan term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr E’s complaint, because she didn’t think Creation had made clear 
how much the policy would cost. 
Creation disagreed. It said the paperwork it gave Mr E when he bought the policy was clear 
enough to have made him aware of the cost.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr E how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr E to work it out 
for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it seems to have been on page two of 
a document setting out information about the policy. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr E  
would expect it to be. I can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he 
was in a shop and his attention was on buying furniture – not on buying insurance. Mr E  
says (and I accept) that he was not told anything about paying for the insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr E better understand what it was costing him. 

I don’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of how 
much it was going to cost him, compared to the modest amount he was borrowing.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr E’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr E should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term. 
Ref: DRN4139338
2
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr E because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr E had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr E actually paid, and paying him the 
difference; and

paying Mr E simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr E setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr E needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr E should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr E and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr E’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4139338
