K822x
complaint
Mr R has complained to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) about the way it’s 
handled a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background 
In May 2014 Mr R was sold a solar panel system by a company called I-Power Systems Ltd 
(“I-Power”) at a cost of £11,200.  The purchase was funded by a loan from Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) which was to be repaid with interest over a 10-year 
term.
A key reason for Mr R agreeing to the purchase was because I-Power told him the financial 
benefits provided by the system would cover the cost of the loan and it would be ‘self-
funding’. Not only was he told to expect a reduction in his electricity bills, but that he would 
also receive Feed-in-Tariff (“FiT”) payments from his energy provider for excess energy 
which could be sold back to the grid.
Mr R soon recognised the system wasn’t producing the financial benefits he was expecting 
and so wasn’t covering the cost of servicing the loan. 
Under s.75 a finance provider can be jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract subject to certain conditions. I-Power ceased trading 
in 2015 and so he was unable to raise his concerns with it.  So he made a claim under s.75 
to Creation stating the benefits of the system had been misrepresented to him.
Mr R is represented by a firm of solicitors who set out the full details of his claim.  Initially 
Creation didn’t uphold the claim and stated that it didn’t have sufficient FiT statements to 
review everything.  So the matter was referred to our Service as a complaint.
Having been given information about FiT payments, Creation made an offer to resolve 
matters based upon the difference between the actual benefits Mr R had received and what 
would be required to make the system self-funding.  The offer also included a refund of the 
overpayments Mr R had made to date plus 8% simple interest on those amounts, and £100 
payment for the trouble and upset caused.
It was noted that Creation’s offer was calculated using the incorrect installation date for the 
system and so the offer was updated and increased using the same principles. As Mr R had 
settled the loan in full with Creation that was taken into account and an offer of £11,179.07 
was made.  One of our investigators reviewed the offer and considered it to be a fair and 
reasonable way of putting things right.
Mr R’s solicitors didn’t agree.  It suggested that the calculation should be based upon what a 
restructured loan would have been using a different methodology – and that would result in 
greater compensation payable to Mr R.
The investigator didn’t agree and so it was requested the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a fresh review and to make a decision.
Ref: DRN4641164
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
Creation has now accepted Mr R’s s.75 claim on the basis that I-Power misrepresented the 
financial benefits of the solar panel system.  So it’s not necessary for me to consider that, 
except to the extent of reviewing the offer it’s made to put things right.
I’m aware Mr R’s solicitors have proposed a different methodology for calculating loss and 
compensation, and they have referred to adopting that approach on this case and more 
widely to other complaints it’s referred to our Service.  It’s important to explain that whilst this 
Service aims to apply consistent principles across similar types of complaints, ultimately we 
review each complaint on its own facts.  So, in making my decision I have specifically 
focussed upon the circumstances of Mr R’s complaint and what I consider fair and 
reasonable overall.
It’s agreed Mr R took a 10-year loan and it was intended that the solar panel system would 
provide sufficient financial benefit to service and repay that loan – as that was what was 
represented by I-Power.  Those benefits were to come from reduced electricity bills, and 
receipt of FiT payments.  In this case Creation has calculated the likely benefit over the 10-
year term by averaging the savings and generated FiT payments Mr R received (and 
extrapolating those across the remainder of the 10-year period).
In this case, Mr R’s solicitor has spoken with Creation directly and confirmed the benefit it 
has used as the basis for its calculation – and has agreed to that figure.  I agree that’s a 
sensible approach, but note it’s based upon a number of assumptions and the real benefits 
in future years could actually be different due to a number of factors.  I also note that Mr R 
has re-financed the loan to obtain a lower rate of interest than Creation had applied to its 
lending.
I understand the point Mr R’s solicitor makes that the required loan should be notionally re-
structured  to reflect what we now know (and the parties have agreed) to be the benefit 
provided by the system.  But I don’t consider that is necessary.  In principle there a number 
of ways that Creation could calculate and propose to put things right, and what I’m 
considering is whether what it has offered is fair and reasonable.
The compensation Creation has offered is based upon an average benefit from previous 
periods because future performance and benefits are unknown.  But the terms of the loan Mr 
R took with Creation are known and were in place from the outset, and so I consider it 
reasonable for that loan to be used as the starting point for any calculation.  Equally, I’m not 
proposing the offer should be reduced to reflect any reduction in Mr R’s actual losses, or the 
fact he’s mitigated some of the interest payable by re-financing the loan to a more preferable 
rate.
So overall, I’m satisfied the methodology and basis for Creation’s calculation and 
subsequent offer to Mr R is fair and reasonable.
I’ve also considered the impact upon Mr R, and in the circumstances think that £100 is an 
appropriate sum for the trouble and upset he’s received.  I realise that Mr R is likely to be 
frustrated with the time it’s taken to resolve these issues and disappointed that I’m not 
Ref: DRN4641164
3
awarding the additional compensation he’s requested.  But I must assure him that I’ve 
considered everything impartially and reached an outcome that I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr R’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited.  But I consider the offer it has made to put things right is a fair and reasonable way 
of resolving matters – and I leave it to Mr R to decide whether or not to accept that offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4641164
