K820x#14
complaint
Miss D complains that a loan made to her by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd was 
unaffordable and amounted to irresponsible lending. She wants any outstanding amount on 
the debt written off and any default removed from her credit file.
background
Miss D says in early 2015 she obtained a fixed-sum loan agreement for £15,000. She tells 
us at the time she already had another personal loan as well as an overdraft facility. Miss D 
says she’d lost her full-time job in December 2014. Since when she’s worked on an ad hoc 
basis but her income is not stable. She feels she’s been trapped in a spiral of debt and has 
had to take other loans to repay the Creation loan.
Creation told us that at the time of the loan Miss D’s application had stated she was in full 
time employment with a monthly income in excess of £2,800 and a rent/mortgage of £1,100 
per month. I addition it had checked Miss D’s credit file and applied its own internal lending 
criteria. As Miss D met the relevant criteria the loan was granted.
The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
nothing to show that Miss D had informed Creation she’d lost her full-time job and her 
income wasn’t fixed. She felt Creation had carried out adequate checks to ensure the loan 
was affordable. And she wouldn’t be asking it to write off the outstanding debt or remove the 
default.
Miss D didn’t accept this outcome. She maintained the loan had been unaffordable and 
made irresponsibly. As it’s not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsman has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m sorry to see Miss D has experienced a lengthy period in which she’s faced financial 
difficulties. It can’t be easy and I can see it’s caused her a good deal of anxiety and upset.
As this complaint is about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending I’ll explain in detail our 
approach to such cases. Prior to offering credit, a lender is required to make adequate 
checks. These should be sufficient and proportionate to a number of factors including, but 
not limited to, the size of the loan and the amount of periodic payments. There’s no set list of 
checks - each business can decide what information it requires. And it can take into account 
information which a customer has provided. It’s important to understand that the point at 
which the lending decision is judged is when the loan was made. And additional credit taken 
on after a loan is made or other changes of circumstance aren’t matters which Creation 
could have known about in making the lending decision. 
The evidence shows Miss D’s application stated she was in full-time employment with a net 
monthly income of just over £2,800 and that she was paying rent of £1,100 per month. 
Ref: DRN4053275
2
There’s also an additional affordability assessment the details of which the adjudicator 
included in her view - so I needn’t repeat this. This was based on Creation’s check upon 
Miss D’s credit file, the information provided by Miss D and an assumed figure for living 
expenses in addition to the rent figure. This led to a calculation that Miss D’s disposable 
income was over £800 per month. And the check had shown she’d had no default or County 
Court Judgments in the previous six years. Her credit score passed Creation’s limit.
Whilst Creation does not appear to have identified another loan which Miss D was paying at 
£235 per month it’s unlikely this would have affected the lending decision. It still left an 
apparently substantial disposable income and the other loan was paid up to date.
Miss D has provided evidence that her income in the months leading up to the loan - apart 
from December when she received additional payment in relation to the termination of her 
employment - was usually only around £2,200 per month and her rent was £1800 per month. 
Additional expenditure meant her outgoings exceeded her income.
Whilst I’ve seen evidence in support of these figures Creation is reasonably able to rely on 
information supplied by a customer as well as its own checks. And I’ve seen no evidence 
that Miss D informed Creation of the change in her employment situation or that her rent was 
higher than stated in her application. 
I believe Creation carried out adequate checks and based on those and information provided 
by Miss D the decision to lend to her was not irresponsible. Nor did Creation have grounds 
to believe it was unaffordable based on the information it had and which it was reasonable to 
rely on.
So whilst I know it will disappoint Miss D I’m not going to uphold this complaint. And I shan’t 
be asking Creation to write off the outstanding balance or remove any default. But if Miss D 
wishes to contact Creation with a view to making affordable arrangements for the repayment 
of this loan I’d expect it to treat her fairly and with due consideration and forbearance.
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4053275
