K820x#14
complaint
Mr T complains about a set of furniture he bought from a furniture supplier. He brings his 
complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr T bought the furniture with a fixed sum loan agreement through Creation. He says that 
the furniture was not of the standard he expected. He says it has unsightly markings that 
weren’t present in the showroom model.
Mr T complained to Creation about the furniture under section 75 but it refused his claim. In 
summary, it said that the markings were a natural feature of the leather. It commissioned two 
reports including one by the Furniture Ombudsman which stated that the markings were “the 
nature of the product”. So it rejected Mr T’s complaint.
In the last position the adjudicator did not recommend this complaint be upheld. She decided 
that the furniture was not faulty. Mr T has disagreed. In summary, he says that he didn’t get 
what he was shown in the showroom and as he complained at the point of delivery he 
shouldn’t have to keep the furniture as it is.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their submissions. Where there is a dispute about what happened 
I make my findings on the balance of probabilities – which is to say, what I find most likely to 
be the case based on the evidence available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I’ve considered the Furniture Ombudsman’s report in detail. This report was created after its 
representative inspected the furniture first hand. It runs to a number of pages and describes 
the issues at hand. I note Mr T argues it isn’t a credible report because it misspelt his name 
and got some other factual issues incorrect. Be this as it may, clearly there was an 
inspection, it is independent and the representative is experienced and knowledgeable about 
such goods. The report says:
“In the technician's opinion, the consumer's complaint is not justified. The markings 
throughout the suite are natural markings/characteristics and are visible with a pull up 
leather. These leathers are dyed rather than sprayed and are known for showing 
such markings, with no evidence of a defect with the leather or any defects which 
would affect the performance of the leather or suite, the technician's findings are that 
no faults were found. This is the nature of product.”
I’ve also considered the colour photographs provided. There are markings visible however it 
seems to me that they are as a result of the nature of the product and the processes it goes 
through in the manufacture of the product. Bearing in mind the cover of the sofa is a natural 
product I think it wouldn’t be fair to expect every sofa of this range to be absolutely identical. 
I can see that Mr T says it doesn’t look like the display model-but I think it looks very similar-
save for the marks which are in the nature of the product.
The supplier’s guide to the product has also been pointed to - noting that being a natural 
product the leather will have natural marks and blemishes. The guide goes on to give 
Ref: DRN4173438
2
examples of such (including pictures) and makes clear that these are part and parcel of the 
product. This seems reasonable and not unexpected given the nature of the product. 
Similarly the dying process described by the Furniture Ombudsman seems to explain how 
the dye would colour such markings. 
Mr T says he didn’t receive this guide. The supplier says its process is to supply such guides 
with all sales. I have considered everything that Mr T has argued however I am not 
persuaded that Creation (or indeed the supplier) has done anything which is fundamentally 
wrong or unfair. Natural products have natural features and I consider these marks in this 
case to be consistent with such features. I find the independent report persuasive. As a 
consequence this complaint does not succeed. 
I understand that this is not the outcome Mr T wanted, however just because he’s not happy 
with the furniture doesn’t mean Creation has treated him unfairly in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons given my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2015.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4173438
