K820x#13
complaint
Mr E acquired goods by means of a fixed sum loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. Mr 
F (representative and executor of Mr E) complains that the loan was mis-sold, because Mr E 
was suffering with a terminal illness from which he died within a year of the sale.
Mr F further complains that Creation is seeking payment of the outstanding balance on the 
loan account. He is willing to return the goods, but wants the sale and loan agreement 
annulled.
background
Mr F initially complained to Creation. In its final response letters, it said that it was unable to 
conclude that the loan was approved or that the sale was handled incorrectly. It also said 
there was no evidence that Mr E had made the sales agent aware of his illness at the point 
of sale. Therefore, it was unable to uphold the complaint.
Mr F then referred his complaint to us. He said he had discussed this transaction with Mr E, 
who had told him that payment was being made by instalments, and that the purchase had 
insurance cover. Mr F added that he considered the amount of interest charged to be 
excessive.
Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should be upheld. He said there was no evidence 
of an insurance policy linked to the transaction. He also noted that Mr E had signed an 
eligibility declaration to claim relief from Value Added Tax (VAT) on the goods, because of 
chronic illness or disability, but had not disclosed his terminal illness on this document. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Creation and the sales agent were unaware of Mr E’s 
terminal illness. He added that he could not comment on the amount of interest charged, as 
this had been properly set out in the loan agreement signed by Mr E.
Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator. He said the goods were designed to provide relief from 
a chronic illness, with which Mr E had suffered and which he declared on the VAT document. 
He added that Mr E was not averse to discussing his condition with strangers, but
did not need to declare his terminal illness on the VAT document.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Mr F argues that the loan should not have been sold to Mr E, because of his terminal illness. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Creation and the sales agent were unaware of Mr E’s 
terminal illness, but Mr F challenges our adjudicator’s interpretation of a key piece of 
evidence he cited in support of his view. 
I sympathise with Mr F’s position as Mr E’s executor. I also agree with Mr F that Mr E did not 
need to declare his terminal illness on the VAT document. 
Ref: DRN4279130
2
However, having considered all the evidence and on balance, I am still unable to conclude 
that Creation and the sales agent were aware of Mr E’s condition. Therefore, I am unable to 
find that the loan was mis-sold, and I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2015.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4279130
