K821x#14
complaint
Miss G took out a fixed sum loan to have her house rendered. The render broke down and 
Miss G wants compensation. She brings her complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He accepted the weather proofing was unsatisfactory 
at the point of sale. The expert surveyors report and his discussions with him supported this. 
The adjudicator therefore said that Creation should pay one of the quotes so the render can 
be removed and reapplied. He also said that Creation should refund the cost of the expert 
report. Creation did not agree and said it would only pay 50% of the purchase price.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold Miss G’s 
complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and subject to satisfying its provisions, a 
consumer has an equal right to bring a complaint against either the supplier of goods and 
services or the finance provider. In this case Miss G has brought her complaint against 
Creation which provided finance under a fix sum loan to enable her to get her house 
rendered. 
I agree with the adjudicator. Miss G says the render was unsatisfactory, and has failed 
causing damp. The surveyor’s expert report and conversations with the adjudicator 
supported this. And the surveyor stated the render has failed causing damp. The surveyor 
also explained to the adjudicator that the render should provide weather proofing for 20-25 
years. I accept what the surveyor said to the adjudicator about this. I therefore find that the 
render was not properly applied due to poor workmanship. It is implied into a contract for 
services that the work will be carried out with reasonable care and skill. The work here was 
not carried out with the appropriate care and skill. I find there has been a breach of contract.
Creation is liable for the breach of contract under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. The usual remedy in cases for the supply of services is an award of the reasonable 
cost of putting things right. Miss G has got three estimates which Creation has seen. It is fair 
and reasonable for Creation to pay for one of these estimates. This includes removing the 
old render and reapplying new. I appreciate that this is a higher cost than the original amount 
borrowed. But the render needs to be removed and then reapplied in order to put things 
right. It is fair and reasonable for all the work to be carried out. 
Creation asked Miss G to get and pay for the expert’s report. As I have upheld this complaint 
it is fair that Creation also refunds the cost of this report.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to;

pay Miss G £240 to reimburse her for the cost of the independent report.
Ref: DRN4189093
2

pay for the removal and replacement of the failed render. Miss G to choose one of 
the three quotes sent to Creation by letter from our adjudicator on 14th November 
2014. Miss G to notify Creation which quotes she has selected within 14 days.
If it wishes, Creation can send payment directly to Miss G so that she is then responsible for 
meeting the costs. Alternatively, Miss G should forward the invoices she receives for the 
work to Creation, who should then settle the invoices within a reasonable period. I consider a 
reasonable period to be no greater than 21 days. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2015.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4189093
