K821x#15
complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) following the delays in 
receiving the claim payments under her payment protection insurance (“PPI”) policy.
background
Mrs D made a claim under her PPI policy. The claim was successful, and the insurer made 
payments to Creation.
Creation says the insurer sent the claim payments to an incorrect Creation bank account. 
Once the mistake had been rectified, the payments were allocated to the correct account. 
Creation reversed one late payment fee and ensured Mrs D’s credit rating wasn’t negatively 
affected.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and thought it was right that the late payment fee 
and Mrs D’s credit rating be reversed, as Mrs D wasn’t at fault for the delays. But he also 
considered, in light of the trouble caused to Mrs D, Creation should pay a further £150 as 
additional compensation.
Creation disagreed as it considered the fault lay with the insurer paying the claim payments 
into an incorrect account.
As the matter hasn’t been resolved it’s been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs D’s complaint and for the same reasons that our adjudicator 
concluded.
Creation says that the insurer paid the claim payments into the wrong account. I note the 
insurer has said that these were the details provided by Creation. Creation in turn then 
asked for evidence from the insurer about where the incorrect Creation bank details came 
from. 
I’m mindful that I’m not deciding a complaint that is between Creation and the insurer over 
who was at fault for the incorrect bank details. Creation and the insurer can liaise with each 
other to get to the bottom of what went wrong between them.
What is clear to me is that the insurer did have a Creation bank account’s details that 
Mrs D’s claim payments were made to. These details must have presumably come from 
Creation somehow at some point. 
As the claim payments were paid into this account, Creation advised it isn’t an account that it 
would check for incoming claim payments. 
Ref: DRN4785538
2
So there was a delay in this error being spotted and Mrs D’s claim payments being paid into 
the right account. This clearly wasn’t the fault of Mrs D. And as our adjudicator alluded to, 
after reviewing the email correspondence between Creation and the insurer, it isn’t clear who 
was at fault for the incorrect details.
But this impacted Mrs D. And I can see that Mrs D went back and forth with both parties 
trying to get the matter resolved. Because of this I agree with our adjudicator’s 
recommendation that Creation should pay an additional compensation amount of £150 to 
Mrs D for the unnecessary trouble caused and to resolve the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs D’s complaint.
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs D £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4785538
