K822x
Complaint
Mr J is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“the CCA”) in relation 
to a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Background 
Mr J was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems. Following 
a subsequent sales meeting, Mr J agreed to enter into a contract to have a solar panel 
system (“the system”) installed at his home. The system cost £5,495 and Mr J had to pay an 
additional £450 for some scaffolding. To pay for the installation of the system, Mr J agreed to 
enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The total amount repayable 
under this loan agreement was around £9,572. Mr J has said that he was told that the 
system would be “self-funded” and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than 
off-set by the feed-in-tariff (“FIT”) income, the system would pay for itself in 7 years and that 
he would receive over £25,000 in benefit over the 20 year lifetime of the system. Mr J has 
said that this has not turned out to be the case.
Mr J, via his representative, made a claim under section 75 of the CCA to Creation. Mr J has 
said that what he was told about the performance of the system and about the system being 
“self-funding” were misrepresentations, and it was these misrepresentations that induced 
him to enter into the contract with the supplier. On making the section 75 claim to Creation, 
Mr J supplied a copy of the quote he was given by the supplier, a copy of sales literature 
used by the supplier, a copy of his invoice, a copy of disciplinary action that had been taken 
against the supplier by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (“RECC”) as well as his 
electricity bills.
In its final response letter, Creation said it was still looking into the concerns that Mr J had 
raised. Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred his complaint to this service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle Mr J’s complaint. It said it had 
calculated the potential savings and income to Mr J over the 10 year term of the loan. It 
worked this out to be around £10,507. It said it would then restructure the loan so that Mr J 
would pay not more than this. As Mr J had settled his Creation loan early, he’d paid a total of 
around £8,316. Creation said based on the amount Mr J had paid compared to the expected 
benefits he would receive, the system was self-funding as he would receive back more in 
benefits, over 10 years, than he had paid over his loan.
One of our investigators thought that the offer from Creation was fair. She said that she was 
satisfied that Mr J bought the system as he thought it would be self-financing and that 
Creation’s calculation showed that the cost of the system, £5,495, would be returned in less 
than 7 years. The investigator did ask Mr J to provide credit card statements so she could 
take any refinanced payments into consideration. Mr J was unable to supply these due to the 
amount of time that has passed.
Mr J, via his representative, didn’t accept the investigators view of his complaint. In summary 
he said he didn’t think the investigator had taken into account that he was induced to enter 
into the contract by the misrepresentation that the system would pay for itself in 7 years and 
the promised returns over the lifetime of the system.
Ref: DRN4075024
2
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J says that he was approach by the installer and during a subsequent sales meeting told 
that the system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Creation nor Mr J dispute that the 
benefits of the system were misrepresented and as a result, this decision will deal with what 
I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably and with minimum formality. In cases of 
this nature, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
Mr J has said that is was the misrepresentations made by the system installer that induced 
him to enter into the contract to have the system installed at his home. Mr J has said there 
were three misrepresentations made to him:

The system would be “self-funded” and his monthly loan repayments would have 
been covered by the benefits from the system.

The system had a “return on investment” of 7 years.

That the system would provide him an overall benefit of around £25,000.
When thinking about how to put things right for Mr J, my role isn’t to make the 
misrepresentations true. 
Creation’s offer is to make the system self-funding over the original 10 year loan term which 
means that Mr J won’t suffer a financial loss from entering into the contract for the system. 
Taking this into account, I don’t think it would be fair or proportionate to require the removal 
of the system from Mr J’s home. I think the fair outcome here is to put Mr J in a position 
where the system is self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr J to keep 
the system, I’m satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT 
payments going forward.
Mr J has said that the offer from Creation doesn’t take into account that he was told the 
system would have a “return on investment” of 7 years or that he will receive less back, over 
the 20 year life of the system, than he was led to believe. To support his position, Mr J has 
supplied the quotation and contract he was given at the time of the sale by the supplier.
I’ve thought on this point carefully and considered the documents that Mr J has supplied. 
The quotation and contract document had a section titled “Financial Report”. Within this 
section there is another table titled “20 Year Predictions”. This is where it refers to the overall 
benefit that Mr J could expect to receive over the 20 year life of the system as well as there 
being a 7 year return on investment. 
I’m satisfied that the use of the word “predictions” made it sufficiently clear that the overall 
returns and expected “return on investment” were not guaranteed and were an estimate of 
what Mr J could expect to receive from his system. This is supported by the marketing 
literature that has been supplied that goes on to explain how the supplier worked out its 20 
year predictions for the system. 
Ref: DRN4075024
3
I’ve also considered the initial letter of complaint made on Mr J’s behalf by his 
representative. This says:
“In particular our client was informed that the cost of the PV system together with the loan 
amount would be offset by the savings that would be achieved through the normal use of the 
PV system and the income received from the Feed in Tariff (“FIT” income). It was further 
represented by the sales representative that the PV system would generate a profit for our 
client over and above the cost of the loan.
The sales representative produced calculations designed to show our client that he would 
make more money from the PV system than he invested. The calculations in the 
contract/purchase order (copy enclosed) showed our client that he would make £25,237.18 
over a period of 20 years and that the system would pay back in 7 years.”
As explained above, I’m satisfied that the contract and purchase order make it clear that any 
returns are estimated and not guaranteed, and that Mr J was led to believe that the system 
would be entirely self-financing and provide him a profit over and above the cost of the loan. 
This is what the offer from Creation is looking to do.
Therefore, although Mr J is unhappy with the returns that I’m satisfied that Creations offer, to 
make the system self-funding over the original 10 year term of the loan, is fair and 
reasonable.
Mr J has said that he settled his Creation loan early with a credit card and has subsequently 
paid off the outstanding balance of his credit card.
Usually I would ask Creation to take into account the amount paid towards the credit card 
when calculating the overall amount that Mr J has paid for his solar panel system. This is 
because I would expect Creation to take into account the additional cost caused by 
refinancing to ensure that Mr J pays no more than the overall financial benefits he is 
estimated to receive over 10 years. 
Due to the time that has passed since Mr J has settled his credit card, he is unable to 
provide any paperwork to show the overall amount they paid back on the credit card. So, 
there isn’t any paperwork available to allow Creation to quantify this additional cost.
Taking the above into account I’m satisfied that the current offer from Creation is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr J’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mr J to keep the system,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr J from the system over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr J’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this; and,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made, if applicable, from the date the 
overpayment was made until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN4075024
4
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr J a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4075024
