K822x
complaint
Mrs F complains that furniture that she financed using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
her. Mrs F is being helped with her complaint by her husband. Her complaint is made 
against Creation Consumer Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mrs F bought some furniture which she financed by a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance. She complained to the supplier about some issues with the 
furniture and she then complained to Creation Consumer Finance under section 75. She 
was not satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the independent expert had inspected the furniture and identified some faults but advised 
that those faults could be repaired. The adjudicator considered that Creation Consumer 
Finance’s offer to arrange for the furniture to be repaired was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs F’s husband says, in summary, that the furniture was not up to a sufficient 
manufacturing standard and it was not made fit for purpose. He also says that they have had 
the furniture for more than two years but have only used it for approximately three months as 
they had to replace it. He says that they deserve a refund of their money.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance has offered to arrange for the furniture to be repaired. It says 
that: “The repairs offered will completely rectify the reported issues with [the] furniture …”.
The furniture has been inspected by an independent expert. The inspection report identifies 
some faults with the furniture but says that the faults can be repaired to: “   bring all the 
furniture back to within manufacturer’s tolerance levels”, and that: “… to correct all issues 
relating to this furniture will require a total time of 5 hours”. 
Although Mrs F’s husband does not consider a repair to be appropriate, I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable to allow Creation Consumer Finance the opportunity to arrange 
for the furniture to be repaired, as it has already agreed to do. I am satisfied that its offer to 
arrange for the furniture to be repaired is an acceptable remedy under section 75. If the 
repair does not correct the faults, Mrs F will be entitled to complain to Creation Consumer 
Finance.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I do not uphold Mrs F’s complaint.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4064532
2
Ref: DRN4064532
