K821x#15
complaint
Miss B is unhappy that her direct debit payments to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) were cancelled without her knowledge. As a result of the cancellation she had to 
pay late payment charges and her credit score has been affected.
background
In July 2016, Miss B made a purchase which was paid for by finance provided by Creation. 
She was due to repay the borrowing by making fixed monthly payments of £24.36.
A direct debit was set up and the first two payments in August and September were successfully 
taken. The direct debit was then cancelled and so the payments in October and November were 
not made. This caused Miss B to charged £55 in missed payment fees by Creation.
When Miss B became aware of the situation in December 2016 she made a payment to 
Creation to bring the missed payments up to date and pay the penalty fees. The direct debit 
was reinstated and the monthly payments have been taken successfully since that time.
Miss B complained to Creation saying it was responsible for cancelling the direct debit, and 
so was unhappy that she had incurred fees and missed payments were recorded on her 
credit file.
Creation offered to refund the fees as a gesture of goodwill, but advised that it couldn’t 
amend Miss B’s credit file as it has a responsibility to accurately record and report her 
payment history. It stated the request to cancel the direct debit had come from Bacs which is 
payment scheme that is used to process direct debits. Its record from Bacs shows that 
Miss B had requested the cancellation.
Miss B disagreed, and provided evidence from her bank showing the direct debit had been 
cancelled by Creation.
The investigator who reviewed the complaint said it should be upheld. She commented that 
Creation had acted reasonably by agreeing to refund the fees, but she also felt it should 
amend Miss B’s credit file. Whilst she couldn’t say who had been responsible for certain, on 
balance she believed it was unlikely Miss B had made the request to cancel the direct debit. 
And so she said it was unfair for the credit file to record the missed payments.
Creation disagreed, and reiterated the request to cancel the direct debit had been made by 
Miss B and it only acted on her instruction. As no agreement could be reached, I’ve been 
asked to review the complaint afresh and make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’ve reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator.
I’ve looked at everything which has been provided by both Miss B and Creation. I 
understand Creation has agreed to refund the missed payment fees and so I’ve not 
considered these further. The issues which remain in dispute are who is responsible for 
cancelling the direct debit, and whether Creation ought to do anything to amend Miss B’s 
credit file. And so these are the points I’ve considered in particular.
Ref: DRN4751216
2
The source of all the problems in this complaint is the cancellation of the direct debit. 
Creation has said it did cancel the direct debit, but that was because it had received 
instruction from Miss B through the Bacs scheme – and so it did nothing wrong. It’s provided 
evidence from it systems showing that the instruction was recorded by Bacs as cancellation 
requested by the payer (Miss B).
In contrast, Miss B has provided evidence from her bank, which shows the direct debit was 
cancelled by the originator (Creation). I note that Creation acknowledges it actually cancelled 
the direct debit, and has suggested perhaps Miss B mistakenly made the request.
To decide what’s fair and reasonable, I’ve further considered what I think is likely to have 
happened. I think that if Miss B had wanted to cancel her direct debit she would have either 
contacted Creation directly or cancelled the direct debit with her bank. There’s no evidence 
she contacted Creation directly, and so she would need to have made the request through 
her bank.
Miss B has requested other direct debits be cancelled with her bank. These were recorded 
as ‘Cancelled by Customer’. In this instance the bank recorded the direct debit to Creation 
as being ‘Cancelled by Originator’. This suggests Miss B had not requested the cancellation 
(whether mistakenly or otherwise).
I’ve also noted Miss B’s other behaviour in relation to the payments to Creation. As soon as 
she was aware there was a problem, she made an immediately payment to bring her 
account up to date and the direct debit was reinstated. At the time the missed payments 
were due, she had sufficient funds available to pay in her bank account. So she clearly had 
no need to cancel the direct debit.
Whilst I understand Creation’s position, I’m not persuaded Miss B requested for the direct 
debit to be cancelled. So it would not be fair and reasonable for adverse entries to be 
recorded on her credit file as I don’t think she was responsible for causing the missed 
payments.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
To put things right, Creation should refund the fees Miss B was charged for missing the 
payments (if they have not been refunded already). It should also arrange for Miss B’s credit 
file to be amended to remove any reference to missed payments on her account for October 
and November 2016.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2017.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4751216
