K821x#12
complaint
Mr N complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd gave him incorrect information after he 
accidentally cancelled a direct debit payment to his point of sale loan. This has caused 
adverse information to be entered on his credit record.
background
Mr N took out a point of sale loan with Creation in February 2011, for a purchase he had 
made. He set up a direct debit from his bank to make payments to the loan. In error, Mr N 
cancelled the direct debit in May 2011. He realised his mistake and called Creation. It said 
that it could still take the payments from his bank. This was not in fact possible, and so 
Mr N’s account went into arrears. 
Creation says that it sent monthly letters to Mr N telling him that he was in arrears with his 
payments. It has not kept a copy of these letters, other than one sent in April 2011. Mr N 
says that he did not receive them. He first became aware that he had not been making 
monthly payments towards the loan when he received a solicitors’ letter in October 2011. 
Mr N immediately paid off the loan in full, and Creation refunded the charges which had 
been applied. 
In June 2013, Mr N became aware that adverse information had been entered onto his credit 
file by Creation. It refuses to remove this, so Mr N brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She agreed that Mr N 
was responsible for repayments to his loan. She considered, however, that he had relied on 
information given by Creation that it could still take payments even though he had cancelled 
his direct debit. The adjudicator also considered that it had not given Mr N enough notice of 
its intention to record adverse information on his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Creation should remove the adverse information from his 
file, and pay him £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Creation is not happy to accept the adjudicator’s recommendation. It says that the advice to 
Mr N about his payment was given when the direct debit was still in place. 
Creation adds that it wrote to Mr N to tell him that his account was in arrears, and that it has 
a duty to record accurate information regarding a customer’s payments. 
The adjudicator noted that Creation’s computer system did not contain a note of Mr N’s 
postcode. In light of this she did not consider that the letters sent to him contained his full 
address, and this was why Mr N had not received them. The adjudicator noted that the 
solicitors’ letter had included the postcode, and he had received and replied to this letter. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N took out a point of sale loan when he bought a product as this option reduced the 
purchase price. He says that this is the only reason he took out the loan as he could have 
paid for the product in full at the time of purchase. Mr N has produced his bank statements to 
show that he had sufficient funds to allow him to do this.
Ref: DRN4258157
2
Mr N says that when he realised he had cancelled his direct debit to Creation, he contacted 
it, and was advised that his monthly payments could still be taken. Creation’s system notes 
show that he was given this advice before it had received notification of the cancellation. 
Mr N thought, however, that payments were being taken from his bank to meet his liabilities 
under the loan. I find that he intended to make the payments due under the loan, and this is 
why he called Creation to make sure that payments could still be taken as he had cancelled 
his direct debit in error. 
Creation says that it sent letters to Mr N to tell him that his account was in arrears. He did 
not receive them. The first letter he had was from Creation’s solicitors in October 2011. On 
receiving this letter, he immediately paid off the whole of the loan. 
Creation has given us a copy of the letter it sent to Mr N in April 2011 regarding his 
cancelled direct debit. Like the adjudicator, I note that it does not contain his full address. 
Mr N says that he did not receive this, or any subsequent letters from Creation. Given that 
he received the letter from the solicitors which contained his full postal details, I am not 
persuaded that Mr N received any of the letters from Creation. If he had, I consider that he 
would have acted on them as he did when he received the solicitors’ letter. 
I find that Mr N did not make his loan repayments due to the advice he received from 
Creation regarding his direct debit. I appreciate that this information was given before it had 
received notification of the cancellation. Mr N’s call to Creation does, however, show he 
intended to make the payment he owed under the loan agreement.
I find that he did not receive the letters from Creation given that they did not include his full 
address.
In light of these findings, I consider that it is unfair for Mr N’s credit record to contain adverse 
information relating to his missed loan payments. I consider that it is fair and reasonable for 
this information to be removed from his file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that £100 is fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr N.
my final decision
My decision is that Creation Financial Services Limited should pay Mr N £100, and remove 
negative information from his credit file relating to the loan. 
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4258157
