K821x#14
complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to him. 
background
In 2006 Mr B bought some furniture in a shop and he took out a loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy premium cost £260.54, which was 
added to the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr B wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including £232.27 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr B’s complaint. He didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And he didn’t think Mr B would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr B was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr B’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr B how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr B to work it out 
for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr B would expect it to be. And I can’t be sure 
it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his attention was on 
buying furniture – not on buying insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr B better understand what the policy was costing him.  

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr B was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr B would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 

I don’t think Mr B would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of how 
much it was going to cost him.
Ref: DRN4045379
2
For these reasons, I uphold Mr B’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr B should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI were paid off early.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra payment paid by Mr B to settle the loan because PPI was 
added to it at the start by:

calculating the amount Mr B would have paid to settle the loan if he had taken it 
out without PPI (including any interest and charges, such as a penalty for early 
repayment)

subtracting that amount from what was actually needed to settle the loan and 
paying him the difference

adding interest (simple, not compound) on the difference between the two 
amounts, at the rate of 8% a year from the date the loan was settled to the date 
the redress is paid†.
(B) 
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr B while the loan and PPI 
policy were active by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr B had taken out 
the loan without PPI

subtracting those payments from the amount Mr B actually paid and paying him 
the difference

paying Mr B interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr B when the policy was 
cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
(C) 
Write to Mr B to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A) and (B).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr B needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr B should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4045379
