K821x#12
complaint
Miss B complains about the outstanding balance on her account with Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited.
background
A car was supplied to Miss B under a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in April 2011. 
The car was written off in June 2011 and payments were made to Creation, on the basis of 
figures provided by it, by two insurers. Creation says that the outstanding balance of 
Miss B’s account is in excess of £4,000 but Miss B says that there should not be an 
outstanding balance. She complained to Creation but was not satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Creation had calculated the outstanding balance incorrectly and that it should have been 
£1,466.50. He asked Creation to provide an explanation of how its figure was achieved. He 
recommended that it should remove any adverse information that it had recorded on 
Miss B’s credit file, that it should pay her £150 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that she had been caused and that it should accept repayment of the 
outstanding balance by instalments, if necessary.
Creation says that its outstanding balance on Miss B’s account is not incorrect, that it has 
provided a breakdown of the outstanding balance and that the information it has recorded on 
Miss B’s credit file is accurate and therefore cannot be removed. It also says that it has not 
caused undue distress or inconvenience to Miss B to equate to £150 worth of compensation 
but says that it is prepared to make a goodwill payment to her of £50.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has repeatedly failed to provide a satisfactory explanation of the outstanding 
balance of Miss B’s account and, in particular, has not adequately explained the rebate of 
£3,132.95. The adjudicator says that the rebate has incorrectly been added to the 
outstanding balance, rather than being deducted from it. The adjudicator has asked for more 
information about the rebate but none has been provided and Creation has not responded to 
the parts of the adjudication addressing the rebate. I consider that it is more likely than not 
that the rebate has incorrectly been added to (rather than deducted from) Miss B’s 
outstanding balance and that the outstanding balance should have been £1,466.50. 
I therefore consider that the outstanding balance of Miss B’s account should be adjusted to 
£1,466.50 and that Creation should negotiate, in good faith, with Miss B a repayment 
arrangement for that amount. I also consider that it should remove any adverse information 
that it has recorded on Miss B’s credit file relating to the loan agreement.
Creation’s failings will have caused Miss B considerable distress and inconvenience and 
I consider it to be fair and reasonable for it to pay her £150 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience. 
Ref: DRN4779183
2
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss B’s complaint. In full and final 
settlement of it, I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Adjust the outstanding balance due on Miss B’s account to £1,466.50.
2.
Negotiate in good faith with Miss B a repayment arrangement for the amount set out 
at 1. above.
3.
Remove any adverse information that it has recorded on Miss B’s credit file relating 
to the fixed sum loan agreement.
4.
Pay £150 to Miss B to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that she 
has been caused by its failings.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4779183
