K821x#14
complaint
Miss Q complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sold her in 2007 over the telephone. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They didn’t think Creation had made Miss Q aware 
she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And they didn’t think it made the policy  
cost clear.
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Miss Q a choice whether to buy the policy. And that the 
overall cost of the policy was clear enough.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Miss Q’s case. 
Miss Q has said she was not told the insurance was optional and that she thought it was 
compulsory. Creation hasn’t been able to provide a recording of the sales call. But it has 
provided a script it says would have been followed. I’m not satisfied that Creation made 
Miss Q aware the policy was optional – and that she could choose to buy it, or not – 
because: 

The script is short. It didn’t require the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was 
optional, or get Miss Q’s explicit consent to add it to her loan. 

The script told the call handler to ‘include quotes with payment protection and without’. 
But it didn’t say what form those quotes should take, how they should be delivered, or 
what prominence should be given to the ‘without’ quote. So this part of the script seems 
to have been open to interpretation by each call handler and I can’t be sure Miss Q was 
given an option to accept or decline the insurance. 

I don’t think the brief mention of cancellation rights in the script was enough to make 
Miss Q aware she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And I also don’t think it 
would have given her the confidence to cancel the policy where she hadn’t first been told 
it was optional. 

Although the credit agreement does allow for Miss Q to select the insurance, the policy 
is not described as optional. And this would have been sent out after the initial phone 
call, when the insurance was sold to her. 

Creation effectively sold the policy to Miss Q over the phone. I think Miss Q would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on anything she received in writing 
afterwards. So Creation should have made the optional nature of the policy clear to 
Miss Q during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.
Ref: DRN4507018
2
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Miss Q that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental 
failing on Creation’s part and I uphold Miss Q’s complaint for this reason. 
Given the above, I don’t need to go on to look at any further aspects of the way the policy 
was sold. However, for clarity, I will add that I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also 
didn’t properly disclose the cost of the policy to Miss Q at the point of sale.. 
For these reasons, I uphold Miss Q’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Miss Q borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so Miss Q’s loan was bigger than it should’ve been 
and she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Miss Q needs to get back the extra 
she paid. 
So, Creation should:
Work out and pay Miss Q the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss Q paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back (the rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†).
If Miss Q made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss Q a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Q’s complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited must pay Miss Q the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March 2015.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4507018
