K821x#15
complaint
Mrs T says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her four payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mrs T took out four loans between 2005 and 2007. Creation sold Mrs T PPI polices 
alongside each of the loans. Mrs T borrowed extra to pay for the policies, which were added 
to the loans and attracted interest. The policies gave Mrs T personal accident, hospitalisation 
and life cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs T’s complaint. He thought Creation hadn’t made the information 
about the cancellation of the policies clear enough to Mrs T. And based, on Mrs T’s 
circumstances, if it had done, he didn’t think she would’ve gone ahead and taken out the 
policies. Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mrs T enough information about the policy 
exclusions so that she could make an informed choice.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs T’s case. 
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
Based on the evidence I’ve seen I don’t think Creation recommended the policies to Mrs T. 
This means it didn’t have to make sure the policies were right for her needs and 
circumstances. But it did have to give Mrs T enough clear information about the policies so 
that she could make an informed decision about whether she wanted to buy them. 
Creation has told us that Mrs T used part of each of her loans to pay off existing debt. This is 
important in this case, because those who consolidate debt can be more likely to do so 
again. And it seems that this is in fact what Mrs T did. 
The loan Mrs T took out in July 2005 closed early in December 2005 when Mrs T took out 
another loan. This loan was used, in part, to settle the July loan. She then took out a further 
loan in July 2006, which closed early in January 2007 when she took out her fourth loan. So 
based on Mrs T’s borrowing history and the purpose of the loans I think she would’ve wanted 
the flexibility to pay off her loans early or cancel the policies. 
But the policies only offered a very limited refund if they were cancelled early – meaning it 
would cost Mrs T more if she wanted to refinance her loans. In her circumstances, I think this 
was important information Mrs T needed to know. And I don’t think Mrs T would’ve fully 
understood this from reading the policy documents. 
I can see that the information about the cancellation terms, which would’ve affected Mrs T 
wasn’t given any particular prominence in the policy summary. And in my view, it didn’t 
clearly explain or highlight the fact that this was a significant limitation of the policy and that 
Mrs T would lose out financially if she cancelled the policies early.
 
Ref: DRN4983156
2
The policy states that after the end of the cancellation period “you will be entitled to a refund 
of premium but it will not be a proportionate amount of the premium originally paid.”  It 
doesn’t explain how the refund would be calculated but just refers the customer to a small 
table, which gives an indication of the percentage of the premium that will be refundable at 
different monthly cancellation points. This means Mrs T would’ve had to work out how much 
she would get back herself. So overall, I don’t think the information about cancellation was 
as clear as it should’ve been.
Given the reason for the loans, I think the cancellation terms would have been important to 
Mrs T. And I don’t think it’s likely that Mrs T would’ve easily understood them based on what 
I’ve seen from the information about these sales. 
Taking all of this into account, had these terms been brought clearly to Mrs T’s attention, I 
don’t think she would’ve bought the policy. Because she would’ve understood the policies 
didn’t offer her enough flexibility and could’ve left her out of pocket. This means Mrs T is 
worse off as a result of what Creation did wrong, so it should put things right
what Creation should do to put things right
Subject to Mrs T agreeing to cancel any PPI policy that was mis-sold and is still in force Creation 
should:
(A) In respect of each loan:

recalculate the loan and the payments to what they would have been if Mrs T had taken 
the loans without PPI;  

repay to Mrs T the amounts by which the payments actually made exceeded the 
recalculated payments;

pay Mrs T interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid;

recalculate the balance that would have been outstanding at the end of each loan had 
the recalculated loan not included PPI.
(B) Calculate how much of the balance that was carried forward to the subsequent loan 
related to the cost of the PPI policy taken out for the previous loan; and

repay to Mrs T all amounts paid under each subsequent loan in respect of the carried 
forward balance, including interest and charges;

pay Mrs T interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid.
(C) Where the most recent loan is still in force and it includes the cost of the most recent PPI 
policy and/or any balance carried forward from the cost of previous PPI policies, Creation 
should restructure the loan or arrange for the loan to be restructured so that the balance 
is reduced to the level that it would have been if it had not included any of the costs of 
the mis-sold PPI policies.
Set out in writing for Mrs T details of the calculations under (A), (B) and (C).  † I understand 
Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. Whether Mrs T 
needs to take any further action will depend on her financial circumstances. More information 
about the tax position can be found on our website. Mrs T should refer back to Creation if she is 
unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if 
Ref: DRN4983156
3
they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs T’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay her compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2016.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4983156
