K822x
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly said he had missed payments 
and then added charges to his loan account - even though he had a direct debit 
arrangement.
 
background 
In 2013 Mr T bought some furniture, and paid in part with a loan from Creation. He signed a 
direct debit mandate for the loan repayments. Payments were taken by direct debit until 
August 2014, when they stopped. Creation says it was notified by Mr T’s bank that he had 
cancelled the direct debit instruction, and wrote to him several times between October 2014 
and February 2015, before passing the account to an external agency to collect the debt. 
However Mr T now lives at a different address from that when he took the loan, and to which 
Creation had been writing. Following contact from us, Creation offered to cancel £90 of £180 
of charges imposed and to pay Mr T £30 compensation because of a delay in responding to 
his complaint. 
Our adjudicator thought that Creation’s offer was fair. He said that no evidence had been 
provided to show that Creation had cancelled the direct debit. If Mr T’s contact details had 
changed, it had been up to him to notify Creation. But it had not handled the complaint 
satisfactorily.
Mr T disagreed. He said that when he had bought the furniture he had told the shop he 
would be moving: it was the shop which had given Creation the wrong address.
He said Creation had dragged matters out for over a year, even though he had tried many 
times to resolve matters by paying what he originally owed without any charges. He had only 
just received a letter from Creation forwarded by us. He believed he should get 
compensation due to Creation’s failure to deal with the matter. But he just wanted the 
charges taken off his account and to pay off the balance. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Mr T said about his new address seems to be correct: he had certainly given the shop 
his new address, as that is the one to which the furniture was delivered and the one shown 
on the insurance certificate. The loan agreement had Mr T’s old address; but when that 
seems to have been where he was living at the time he signed it, that was correct. However I 
have seen nothing to show that Creation had the new address. It would not be fair to hold 
Creation responsible if the shop failed to pass on the information about Mr T’s planned 
move.
Direct debits are designed to be set up and cancelled by the customer through his or her 
bank: not by the organisation being paid. Without any other evidence about how this direct 
debit came to be cancelled, it seems most likely that either Mr T cancelled it by accident 
(that might not be too difficult to do in online banking), or that it was a mistake by Mr T’s 
bank. But it seems unlikely it was Creation’s fault. 
It was the combination of the two problems, the cancelled direct debit and Creation not 
having the correct address, which led to the account falling into arrears and the charges 
Ref: DRN4109930
2
being imposed. While I am sympathetic to Mr T’s situation, as I am sure he fully intended to 
make the payments, I have not seen adequate evidence to make me believe that Creation 
was responsible for that situation arising.
However Creation was responsible for delays in dealing with Mr T’s concerns. I think that the 
offer it has now made of reducing the charges by £90 and paying Mr T £30 in compensation 
is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My decision is that, if it has not yet done so, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should reduce 
the balance on Mr T’s account by £90 and pay him £30 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2016.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4109930
