K821x#15
complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that the range cooker they bought with finance from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd isn’t fit for purpose.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought the cooker in March 2016. They later complained to Creation about a 
problem they had with it. And, being unhappy with its response, they complained to this 
service.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs D’s complaint should be upheld. She said Creation 
should take the cooker back and end the finance agreement.
Creation disagreed with the adjudicator’s conclusions. So, the matter’s been referred to me 
to make a final decision.  
I recently issued my provisional findings on this complaint. I explained that in the 
circumstances, I was minded to conclude it would be fair for me to ask Creation to repair Mr 
and Mrs D’s cooker at no cost to them. But as it had no involvement in the previous repair 
attempts, I was minded to conclude it wouldn’t be reasonable for me to ask Creation to pay 
Mr and Mrs D compensation for any trouble and upset they’ve experienced as a result of the 
problem with their cooker.
This was different from the adjudicator’s opinion, so I invited both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
I’ve again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs D say they didn’t go direct to the 
manufacturer about the problem. Rather, they say they went to the retailer three times to ask 
it to arrange for an engineer to attend from the manufacturer. And they say they’ve given the 
retailer two opportunities to repair the cooker, but its attempts have been unsuccessful. So, 
they say they should be able to claim a refund.  
Mr and Mrs D also say they’ve been without a fully functioning oven for 10 months including 
Christmas. And they say they’ve had to take numerous days off work, paid for an 
independent report, months of creating various communications to resolve the matter, not to 
mention the stress and anxiety they’ve suffered. 
Creation says the information the retailer gave it indicates Mr and Mrs D went direct to the 
manufacturer about the problem. And it says this is confirmed by the fact that the 
manufacturer was reluctant to give information about the problem to the retailer or to 
Creation. It says this wouldn’t have been an issue if the communication with the 
manufacturer had been initiated by the retailer.
Ref: DRN4115443
2
Creation also says before Christmas Mr D told it he was looking into hiring an oven for the 
Christmas period and that he expected Creation to cover the cost. Creation said it advised 
Mr D to send it details of the cost, so that it could be reviewed in line with his complaint. But 
Creation says it hasn’t received any further information about the matter. And it says it 
doesn’t feel compensation would be warranted, as it has agreed to arrange for the cooker to 
be repaired at no cost to Mr and Mrs D.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs D have been experiencing a problem with their range cooker over 
a prolonged period of time. And I’ve sympathy for them. But I don’t think it would be fair for 
me to hold Creation responsible for previous unsuccessful repair attempts which it wasn’t 
involved in organising and over which it had no control. 
For this reason I don’t think it would be reasonable at this stage for me to ask Creation to 
take the appliance back and end the finance agreement. And for the same reason, I don’t 
think it would be reasonable for me to ask it to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation for any 
trouble and upset they’ve experienced as a result of the problem with their cooker. But I do 
think it’s both fair and reasonable for me to ask Creation to repair the cooker at no cost to Mr 
and Mrs D. So, I partly uphold their complaint.
my final decision
I partly uphold Mr and Mrs D’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. It must 
repair Mr and Mrs D’s cooker at no cost to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2017.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4115443
3
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that the range cooker they bought with finance from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd isn’t fit for purpose.
background
Mr and Mrs D bought the cooker in March 2016. They later complained to Creation about a 
problem they had with it. And, being unhappy with its response, they complained to this 
service.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs D’s complaint should be upheld. She said Creation 
should take the cooker back and end the finance agreement.
Creation disagreed with the adjudicator’s conclusions. So, the matter’s been referred to me 
to make a decision.  
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I’m currently minded to partly uphold Mr and Mrs D’s complaint and to ask Creation to repair 
the cooker at no cost to them. I’ll explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say the cooker has a faulty door, which means it won’t seal properly and is 
potentially dangerous. They say engineers have attended twice to repair the door, but it’s 
now in a worse condition than the original installation. So, they say they want to reject the 
cooker and end their finance agreement.
Mr and Mrs D also say they want compensation for the time they’ve needed to take off work 
to deal with the problem. And for the stress and hassle the situation’s caused them.
Creation says it’s unable to agree there’s any evidence of a manufacturing fault that was 
present at the point of sale. It says the retailer hasn’t had an opportunity to resolve the issue 
with Mr and Mrs D, as they went directly to the manufacturer about the problem they were 
experiencing.
Ref: DRN4115443
4
Creation also says if there’s a fault with the cooker, it feels the best next step would be for 
Mr and Mrs D to provide a full independent inspection report. And if a manufacturing fault’s 
identified, it will review the matter and will also review the cost of the report.
From the information I’ve seen, I’m minded to conclude it’s likely there was a fault with the 
door which was present or developing when Mr and Mrs D bought the cooker. And I think it’s 
understandable that they reported the problem to the manufacturer, in the first instance. 
I note repairs were attempted. But Mr and Mrs D say there’s still a problem with the door not 
closing and sealing properly. And they’ve given us a short report to that effect from an 
independent engineer.
I acknowledge Creation had no control over the third party repair attempts. And it says they 
may have been the cause of any current problem, rather than a manufacturing defect. But it 
appears that the current problem’s of a similar nature to the issue with the door Mr and Mrs 
D reported initially. So, I’m minded to conclude it was probably present or developing when 
they bought the cooker.
I’m also minded to conclude that obtaining a full independent inspection report would be 
disproportionate at this stage. And that the short report Mr and Mrs D have obtained is 
sufficient independent evidence of the problem with the door. 
So, in the circumstances, I’m minded to conclude it would be fair for me to ask Creation to 
repair Mr and Mrs D’s cooker at no cost to them. But as it had no involvement in the previous 
repair attempts, I’m minded to conclude it wouldn’t be reasonable for me to ask Creation to 
pay Mr and Mrs D compensation for any trouble and upset they’ve experienced as a result of 
the problem with their cooker.
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, but subject to both parties’ responses to this provisional 
decision, I’m currently minded to partly uphold Mr and Mrs D’s complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd. And I’m minded to ask Creation to repair Mr and Mrs D’s cooker at 
no cost to them.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4115443
