K821x#12
complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a single premium payment protection insurance (“PPI”) 
policy by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) which was taken out in connection 
with a loan to purchase home furnishings in 2005.
The PPI had a term of three years, the same term as the loan; 12 months’ free credit was 
offered, and the loan and PPI repayments were effectively deferred for 12 months. During 
this “special offer” period, the PPI policy offered life cover. Thereafter, for the three years the 
finance would run if full payment for the goods was not made by the end of the special offer 
period, it provided benefit for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover. 
Mr E is represented by a claims management company.
background
I have attached my provisional decision which was dated 7 August 2014, which forms part of 
this final decision. 
In it, I set out why I was provisionally upholding Mr E’s complaint. I invited both parties to 
provide any further submissions they may wish to make before I reached a final decision. 
Mr E, via his representative, accepted my provisional decision and Creation confirmed it had 
no further points to put forward.
my findings
I have therefore reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As neither of the parties has provided 
any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold Mr E’s complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr E fair 
compensation in accordance with the calculation of redress set out in my provisional 
decision.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4947109
2
copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a single premium payment protection insurance (“PPI”) policy by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) which was taken out in connection with a loan to 
purchase home furnishings in 2005. The PPI had a term of three years, the same term as the loan; 12 
months’ free credit was offered, and the loan and PPI repayments were effectively deferred for 12 
months. During this “special offer” period, the PPI policy offered life cover. Thereafter, for the three 
years the finance would run if full payment for the goods was not made by the end of the special offer 
period, it provided benefit for accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover. 
Mr E is represented by a claims management company.
background
The adjudicator concluded that the complaint should be upheld. Creation does not agree with the 
adjudicator’s view and so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above but, in reaching my decision, I have 
carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. I have also taken account of any relevant regulatory rules, the law and 
good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in our well-
established general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, which is published on our website. 
The key questions I need to consider therefore are:

whether, in giving any advice, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr E’s needs; and 

whether Creation gave Mr E information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put him 
in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was buying.
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I need to consider whether Mr E would have 
acted differently if it had not done so.
did Creation recommend the policy to Mr E?
I understand this policy was sold during a meeting in a store when Mr E arranged the finance for his 
home furnishings. Creation says it did not recommend the policy to him but gave him information so 
he could decide for himself whether the policy was suitable. Mr E cannot remember whether or not a 
recommendation was made. 
Creation has provided a key facts document, which it says would have been given to Mr E at the time. 
This document explains that Mr E would not receive advice or a recommendation about PPI. So, on 
balance, I am persuaded Creation did not advise Mr E to take out the policy. 
Therefore Creation did not have to assess the suitability of the policy for Mr E’s circumstances. 
However, it did have to provide him with information about the cover that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so that he was able to make a proper and fully informed decision about whether to take 
out the policy. 
I am not satisfied that Creation did so in this case and it is on this point that I intend to focus. 
Ref: DRN4947109
3
were Mr E’s information needs met?
I am not satisfied that Creation clearly presented the cost of the policy to Mr E. I think this is a 
significant failing for reasons I’ll explain in detail below. 
Essentially, though, I don’t think Creation explained clearly enough to Mr E how much interest he 
would pay on the PPI premium if the loan and the policy ran their full term.
My thinking on this sits in the context of how, when and where the policy was sold and the type of 
policy Mr E was sold – a single premium PPI policy. 
Single premium PPI policies like the one sold to Mr E are paid for in a very different way to most other 
insurance products. In particular, the cost structure of the policy – how the policy’s up-front cost is 
often significantly increased because interest is added to it over the term of the loan – is different. 
I take into consideration that, at the point of sale, there would have been a number of things going on. 
First and foremost among them was Mr E’s purchase of home furnishings. Second, was arranging the 
finance to do that – the loan. And third was arranging an insurance policy (which is unlikely to have 
been something Mr E would have thought he would be doing, or his principal focus), which was 
funded in an unusual and not straightforward way. 
And with lots of information to try and take in, even when the relevant information about the cost of 
single premium PPI is disclosed, I can see how some consumers might still find it difficult to 
understand how the policy is funded and the implications to them of paying for insurance in this way. 
I can also see why some consumers may not understand that taking out a single premium policy 
instead of, say, a monthly premium policy can often be an expensive way of paying for insurance 
cover. 
 
So, if some relevant information about the cost of the policy is not disclosed to a consumer, I think it 
follows that the risk increases that the consumer might not have a clear understanding of the policy. 
Such is my assessment of the context of the sale; I’ll now turn to the specifics of how the policy was 
sold. 
Creation tells us that the amount of interest was included credit agreement Mr E signed and that it 
was then broken down in the policy summary he was given. It goes on to say that the onus was on 
Mr E to read all the information provided and that, if he felt it was inadequate, it was his responsibility 
to request further information. I don’t agree. It was Creation’s duty to provide Mr E with information 
that clearly drew his attention to the main terms of the policy, so that he could decide (based on this 
information) whether he wanted it. I have no reason to believe that the cost of the policy – including 
the interest that would be charged – is unlikely to have been a key consideration for any consumers in 
Mr E’s circumstances, purchasing an insurance product adding substantially to their overall “spend”. 
Looking at the evidence in more detail, on the copy of the credit agreement we have, I can see that 
the premium for the policy – which is described as “Amount of Credit (Insurances/Warranty)” – is set 
out separately. I can also see that the total cost of the PPI – which is described as “Total amount 
payable (Insurances/Warranty)” – is also set out separately (this figure aggregates the premium and 
the interest as a single, overall, figure).
However, the credit agreement contains no separate reference to the amount of interest payable on 
the PPI. I think this omission, in the main finance document in this case, represents a significant 
information failing. I say this especially since the amount of interest payable on the premium Mr E was 
paying increased the total cost of the PPI by 89%. In other words, as a result of financing his 
PPI premium (as I’ve already said, a concept which Mr E wouldn’t have been familiar with) Mr E 
nearly doubled the amount he ended up paying for the insurance he took out. There is much financial 
information set out in this document (and indeed, the amount of information contained in it, in small 
font, only serves to heighten my concern that Mr E might not have comprehended what he was 
Ref: DRN4947109
4
committing to) but nothing that sets out clearly for Mr E how much interest – extra cost – he could 
expect to pay on the premium as a result of how this policy was funded.
This is not my only concern about how the interest payable on the PPI is explained in the credit 
agreement. As I noted at the outset, the agreement provided for a deferred interest-free period of 12 
months on the loan, during which Mr E qualified for life cover under the PPI policy. So, if Mr E repaid 
the finance within one year, there would be no interest charged on his loan, and he would have had 
the benefit of free life cover. 
However – and this is a significant point – if Mr E did not repay the finance within this “special offer” 
period, the agreement provided that interest on the loan and the PPI was calculated from the date of 
the agreement – and not, for example, from the date the interest-free period on the loan ended. The 
effect of this, if Mr E did not repay the loan within 12 months, was that he would have accrued more 
interest on their PPI premium during that time, which additional interest would mean higher costs over 
the three years the policy would run. 
Although this deferral of interest is referred to in the agreement – it says “interest is calculated from 
the date of the agreement on the amount of credit outstanding from time to time throughout the 
duration of this agreement” – it is set out in very small print, which I think it is possible Mr E might 
easily – and quite reasonably – have missed. And nowhere are the financial implications of this 
arrangement for the interest payable on the PPI policy made clear in the credit agreement, nor 
anywhere else in the documentation I have seen. And the main financial implication for Mr E in this 
case is that, if the loan continued for its full term, he would have paid a significant additional sum in 
interest on the single premium PPI policy in the first year – when the only benefit conferred was the 
“free” life cover.
Creation has told us that Mr E would also have received a policy summary (which I have already 
referred to above). As well as summarising the cover, it included a section headed “Statement of 
Demands & Needs”. In this section, the cost of the premium, the interest charged on the premium and 
the total cost of the policy (that is, premium plus interest) is set out. In relation to this document, 
however, I have three main concerns:

First, I do not know at what point in the sales process Mr E would have been given the policy 
summary. In particular, and in the context of a sale conducted in a busy retail environment where 
Mr E’s focus might easily have been elsewhere, or limited, I do not know that he necessarily had 
an opportunity to read it carefully, before he ticked the credit agreement to say that he wished to 
buy the PPI and then signed it. Creation tells us only that the retailer would have printed off a pre-
contract agreement, as well as the policy summary (which included the Statement of Demands & 
Needs) and the initial disclosure document. 
So, on balance, I do not have enough information about how the sale took place fairly to conclude 
that Mr E was given clear information about exactly how much the PPI was going to cost him – 
and in particular how much interest was chargeable and how this increased the cost of the policy 
he was buying – before he ticked and signed to take it out.

Second, the Statement of Demands and Needs is set out in a document that Mr E didn’t need to 
sign. This means it might well have been a document Creation didn’t draw his attention to and – 
just as significantly – that Mr E quite reasonably mightn’t have considered as important in 
comparison, for example, to the credit agreement, which he was signing. Also, although the costs 
are set out separately from the summary of the policy terms, I do not think they are prominently 
positioned within the document – they appear at the very end and could easily, I think, have been 
missed.
Finally, I do not think they appear in the sort of document in which Mr E might have expected to 
see them. It is, after all, headed “Key Facts: Open + Direct CreditCover: Life Accident, Sickness 
and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance: Policy Summary”. Nothing in its title suggests 
it contains important financial information about the cost of the policy (and about how that cost is 
Ref: DRN4947109
5
financed, and its implications) that Mr E might need to consider before making his decision – 
including the specific amount of interest he is likely to have to pay, an amount which is not 
mentioned anywhere else in the documentation I have seen.

Third, in the section of the Statement of Demands & Needs dealing with “Life cover during the 
Special Offer Period”, the premium, interest and total price for the life cover during that period are 
described as “free”. In my view, this this is misleading. I think that, even had Mr E had his 
attention drawn to this document – which, as I’ve said above, I think is unlikely – it wouldn’t have 
been clear to him that the cover was really free only if he repaid the loan within that period. And, 
more importantly that, if he didn’t, interest of 29.8% per annum would be applied to it.
And I should also say that, nowhere in the documentation I have seen, is the monthly cost of the 
PPI set out separately for Mr E. This, if it had been disclosed, is something that might have helped 
him understand better the cost of the policy – which represented a little over £33 pounds a month – 
and, as a matter of good industry practice, is something that we might reasonably have expected to 
see in relation to this type of policy.
did the failing result in a difference to Mr E’s decision?
Establishing a clear (and significant) failing or flaw is not sufficient for me to uphold the complaint. 
I must also consider whether this failing would have made a difference to Mr E’s decision to purchase 
the policy. 
In this case and in his particular circumstances, I think it would have done. He took the PPI out 
alongside purchases that were non-essential items and of only moderate value. To put it in context, 
he was spending a little under £2000. 
I do not think that, as Mr E went shopping for his furnishings, obtaining payment protection for 
accident, sickness and unemployment in relation to the loan he was getting to pay for them is likely to 
have been at the forefront of his mind in the way it might have been if, say, the loan was much larger, 
or secured on his home. And his decision to buy the policy might well have been motivated at least in 
part by the initial period of free (assuming the loan was repaid within 12 months) life cover that was 
offered, and how that may have been presented to him.
And nor do I have reason to believe that the cost of the cover he was purchasing wouldn’t have been 
important to him, or that he would have considered that a policy whose cost was increased by around 
89% as a result of being financed, and which added £33 to his monthly repayments (when they would 
have been only £100 without the addition of PPI) – when neither of these things were made clear to 
him – represented fair value for him. Had Mr E been given clearer information, and knowing that he 
was making a relatively insignificant purchase on credit, I think Mr E is unlikely to have seen enough 
value in the policy to decide to buy it.
conclusion 
It follows that I do not think Creation met Mr E’s information needs, and that I think with better and 
clearer information about the cost of the policy Mr E is likely to have declined it; so I propose to 
uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN4947109
6
my provisional redress
From the evidence I have seen in this case, I think it is most likely that, if Mr E had not purchased this 
PPI policy, he would still have gone ahead with the loan. Therefore he should be put back in the 
position he would have been in had the PPI policy not been sold. The loan and the PPI policy had a 
term of only three years and so should by now have run their course. However, I understand that Mr E 
entered into a debt management plan at some point after the loan and the PPI were taken out. And 
Creation has confirmed that the PPI policy is still active and there are arrears on the account – 
although it would be useful to receive further confirmation of this position. In these circumstances, 
Creation should, if Mr E agrees to Creation cancelling the policy:
A.
Restructure the debt (without charge to Mr E) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed; and

any arrears on the account that are attributable to the PPI (including any interest and 
charges) are removed.
B.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr E because PPI was added to his loan 
by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr E had taken out the loan 
without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr E actually paid and paying him the difference; 

paying Mr E interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 8% 
a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid; and;†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr E if the policy is cancelled and the 
value of any successful claim.
C.
Write to Mr E to set out what he still owes and how much he will pay and when as a result of (A). 
This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under (B). Creation should write to 
Mr E to set out the details of the calculations and amounts calculated under (A) and (B). 
If Mr E wants to use any money he receives to reduce the debt, Creation should allow this. But it 
cannot require Mr E to reduce the debt to less than it would be now had Mr E not bought the 
PPI policy. 
† I understand Mr E is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. Whether 
Mr E needs to take any further action will depend on his financial circumstances. More information 
about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr E should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should 
contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of 
the compensation. 
Ref: DRN4947109
7
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I am considering upholding Mr E’s complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
I now invite the parties to make further submissions by 9 September 2014. At the end of this period, 
or when both parties have commented, I will reconsider the case in the light of any further 
submissions before reaching a final decision.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4947109
