K822x
complaint
Mrs B complains that she did not receive the correct photographs she ordered from a 
supplier, paid for with a fixed sum loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She asked 
Creation to cancel the agreement and take back the incorrect photographs she had 
received. She brings her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background 
In October 2010 Mrs B attended a photoshoot with her teenage daughter. She was given a 
CD of ten images and she placed an order for three black and white photos to be printed and 
framed. She says she was told the order would be delivered before Christmas, but the 
framed photos were delivered several months later. All three photos were in colour not black 
and white and Mrs B says two of them were the wrong images. 
Mrs B complained to the supplier, and then to Creation, saying she wanted to cancel the 
credit agreement. She was also unhappy that Creation added charges to the account. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt Creation could have done more to 
investigate and resolve Mrs B’s complaint at an earlier stage. He felt there was a clear 
breach of contract as the printed photos were not the ones Mrs B ordered. However, he felt 
a fair resolution would be for Creation to remedy the breach by arranging to provide Mrs B 
with the correct printed photos, rather than cancel the whole agreement.
Creation agreed to collect the incorrect photos, supply the right ones and reset the credit 
agreement by removing the charges and any information about them from Mrs B’s credit file. 
It also agreed to reduce the outstanding balance by £100 for distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor initial handling of the matter. Finally, it agreed to come to an affordable 
payment plan with Mrs B, because she said her financial circumstances had changed since 
she took out the agreement. 
In August 2012 Mrs B agreed to accept this offer, if the photos were delivered within three 
weeks. However, the photos were not delivered until October. Mrs B now says she does not 
want them. She says they are dated and their desirability has diminished. 
Mrs B also argues – through her representative, who I will call “Mr J” – that she only 
accepted Creation’s offer of replacement photos because she was misled about the time it 
would take to provide them. Mr J argues that this is a further breach of contract. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mrs B to wait so long for the printed 
photos and also to wait longer than expected for the replacements after accepting Creation’s 
offer. However, what I am looking at here is what is fair and reasonable in the overall 
circumstances and to what extent Creation did something wrong and what it should now do 
to put things right.  
Ref: DRN4524130
2
Section 75 creates an equal liability on the finance provider as against the supplier. Clearly 
there was a breach of contract by the supplier as Mrs B did not get the printed photos she 
asked for. I agree with the adjudicator that Creation ought to have picked up on that part of 
her complaint more quickly and worked with the supplier to come to a resolution much 
sooner than it did. I can understand that this caused Mrs B frustration and inconvenience. 
Mrs B says the original photos were supposed to be delivered in time for Christmas. I see no 
particular reason to doubt that, although the limited order paperwork doesn’t seem to specify 
a delivery date. Also, from what Mr J has said, the printed photos were for Mrs B’s own use 
to display in her home rather than being, for example, Christmas presents which might be 
expected to have limited value if not delivered in time for Christmas. I also note that Mrs B 
was provided with the photos on CD very soon after the photoshoot, so I think it is fair to say 
that she had the benefit of that part of the order. 
I have to say I’m not persuaded by Mr J’s arguments, on behalf of Mrs B, that the photos are 
historical and therefore of limited desirability. All photos are, by their nature, an image of a 
specific moment in time. Whilst I can appreciate that Mrs B has lost out on some of the 
enjoyment she might have had through having the photos on her wall, she nevertheless has 
those photos now. And she has always had the photos on disk.
I cannot see that the additional two month delay between Mrs B accepting the settlement 
offered by Creation and being provided with the printed photos had such a detrimental effect 
that it rendered them undesirable. Nor am I persuaded by Mr J’s arguments that there has 
been a further breach of contract relating to the settlement, or that this additional delay, in 
itself, means the breach of contract by the supplier is not capable of being remedied. 
I do think that Creation, being well aware of the length of time Mrs B had already waited for 
the printed photos and the importance of the timescale she had set, could have done more 
to chase up the supplier to get the photos delivered to Mrs B sooner. I will therefore increase 
the amount Creation should deduct from the overall account balance from £100 to £150 to 
reflect this additional distress and inconvenience. 
Otherwise I think Creation has acted appropriately and has made a fair offer to settle this 
dispute. I don’t agree that it would be fair or reasonable to now direct Creation to cancel the 
credit agreement entirely. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (where it has not already done so) to:

remove any charges from the credit agreement and any adverse entries relating to the 
agreement from Mrs B’s credit file; and

reduce the balance of the account by £150 (for clarity that is £150 in total, not £150 in 
addition to any deductions already made).
Ref: DRN4524130
3
Mrs B and Creation will now have to negotiate to come to a mutually acceptable 
arrangement to pay off the remaining account balance at a rate Mrs B can reasonably afford. 
It is likely that Mrs B will have to provide Creation with information about her current financial 
circumstances to allow it to properly assess her ability to pay. This requires cooperation on 
both sides and Creation should treat Mrs B positively and sympathetically if she is in 
financial difficulties.
If Mrs B feels Creation does not treat her positively and sympathetically when negotiating a 
payment arrangement she would be able to bring a new complaint about that to Creation 
and, ultimately, to this service. However, I hope Mrs B and Creation can now resolve this 
issue between them. 
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4524130
