K822x
complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly recorded on her credit file 
that she missed six payments on her account, and did not deal adequately with her concerns 
about that.
background
Mrs M had two different accounts with Creation for purchases at different stores. She 
accidentally cancelled the payment arrangement for one. When she rang to re-instate it, it 
seems she was given the reference number for the other account: so all the later payments 
for both accounts went into one. That account was paid off early while the other went into 
arrears. Mrs M was then refused credit elsewhere. After she contacted Creation several 
times to complain, it eventually agreed to amend her credit record and offered £20 in 
compensation. She feels that is far too little for the time, trouble and stress caused, cost of 
phone calls and credit reports and inability to get 0% offers on her credit cards. She also 
says she lost the chance to get a mortgage before prices increased.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint was upheld. She felt that Mrs M should 
have more compensation and that £250 would be fair and reasonable.
Creation agreed to pay that. Mrs M disagreed. She did not think that £250 was sufficient to 
compensate her for over seven months of anguish when she thought she might never be 
able to get a mortgage.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that it will have been worrying and upsetting for Mrs M to find that her account was 
showing as in arrears when she had in fact been making payments (but they had been going 
to the wrong account). I can also see that when she first complained to Creation, which 
appears to be in September 2014, Creation did not initially agree to amend her credit record 
and it took a number of further contacts before that happened in November 2014.
But I am not sure why Mrs M says she had over seven months of anguish as it appears that 
her credit record was amended within three months of her realising there was an issue. But 
I don’t know exactly when she made the mortgage application which was turned down. But 
even if I had more evidence about the mortgage, it seems unlikely to change my view. If 
Mrs M was rejected earlier, and was not aware of any reason for that, I might have expected 
her to check her credit record (and then contact Creation) sooner. And it would be almost 
impossible to quantify what loss, if any, resulted as a result of a failed application.
Overall, on the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that the £250 now on offer, together with 
the credit records having already been corrected, is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs M £250.
Ref: DRN4118487
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2015.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4118487
