K822x
complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a three piece sofa suite he bought in July 2017
financed by a loan with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). It wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality and he wants compensation.
background 
Mr H bought a three piece sofa. This was faulty and was replaced. But he had more issues 
with the replacement suite. Creation accepted that the goods were faulty so the only issue is 
what it should do to put things right. Creation put forward various offers to try to resolve the 
problem, but none were accepted by Mr H and he didn’t want the suite repaired at his home 
address.
The adjudicator noted that the suite had already been replaced, so she thought it only fair 
that Mr H be allowed to cancel the agreement and get compensation. In her view Creation 
should pick up the suite without charge; cancel the finance agreement and refund Mr H all of 
the payments  made under it and the deposit; with interest from the date of the
payment to the date of settlement and pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
Creation accepted this, but Mr H wants more compensation as he got rid of his last suite and 
will now be left without one.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue to decide is how much compensation Mr H should get. Mr H doesn’t think 
£150 is enough due to the inconvenience he has suffered. Creation accepts the suite was 
faulty and has agreed to cancel the agreement, collect the suite, refund all monies paid with 
interest and pay compensation. I understand that Mr H would like more compensation, but 
our role is to award what is fair and reasonable. In this case, whilst I accept Mr H has been 
inconvenienced, I agree with the adjudicator that £150 is fair for the hurt and distress 
suffered. I am not prepared to order more.
I note Mr H has stated he may take legal action, and this is something he may choose to do 
rather than accept this offer of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint; and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd are 
ordered to;

pick up the suite without charge;

cancel the finance agreement and refund Mr H all of the payments he has made
to date and the deposit paid;

pay Mr H simple yearly interest on all the refunds at 8% from the date of the
payment to the date of settlement; and

pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN4981065
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2018.
Clare Hockney
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4981065
