K821x#14
complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a loan in 2008. The cost of the policy was added to 
the loan and repaid over the loan term, with interest.
background
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs C’s complaint, saying that Creation hadn’t given Mrs C a clear 
choice about the whether or not to take the policy or properly explained how much the policy 
would cost. Our adjudicator found that Mrs C wouldn’t have bought the policy if Creation had 
done so. 
Creation disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs C’s complaint.
Creation says the cover might have benefitted Mrs C, as she has said she had no other 
means that she could use to make repayments if she was unable to work. But I don’t need to 
reach a finding on whether the PPI might have been useful to Mrs C – because I’m not 
satisfied Creation gave her a choice about whether to buy it in the first place. This is a 
significant and fundamental failing and is enough to uphold this complaint.
Creation sold the policy to Mrs C over the phone. The script (if it was followed) did refer to 
“optional” cover at the start. But this passing reference was followed immediately by a lot of 
information about what the policy did and didn’t cover. So Mrs C could easily have missed it.
Otherwise the script didn’t give a clear indication that the PPI was a separate product. It 
didn’t ask Mrs C for her clear and explicit consent to add the PPI to the loan. It only asked 
whether Creation could ‘go ahead and send (him) out documentation including the insurance 
cover to complete and return”.
I think that, in the context of the whole call, Mrs C would have taken this question to be 
asking her whether she wanted the loan paperwork sent to her to sign. I’m not satisfied she 
would have known – from the way the question was worded, or from a brief mention of 
cancellation rights – that she had a choice, and was being asked to make a choice, about 
buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN4231538
2
I can see that Mrs C ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But I can also see 
that a handwritten note has been added to the loan agreement telling Mrs C to tick and sign 
for the cover. The loan agreement also didn’t describe the PPI as optional. By then it looked 
like an integral part of the loan. The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mrs C didn’t 
tick and sign. And although the very last sentence at the bottom of the statement of price 
said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan to buy the policy, this wasn’t in a prominent location. 
Again it could be easily overlooked.
I don’t think Mrs C would have bought the policy if she’d been made properly aware she had 
a choice. So I uphold Mrs C’s complaint.
fair compensation
Mrs C should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI ran for their full term.
Mrs C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Mrs C needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs C the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs C paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†.

If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2015.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4231538
