K820x#14
complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under S 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a sofa.
background
In July 2015 Mrs B bought a sofa and a chair from a retailer I’ll call S. She found the sofa 
uncomfortable as the back cushion moved forward when she sat on it. Mrs B says that she 
has medical condition and specifically asked about this when buying the sofa and was told it 
wouldn’t be a problem.
The store sent an inspector to look at the sofa and he concluded there was no 
manufacturing defect. He said the sofa needed to be dressed, i.e. the back cushion plumped 
up after it had been sat on. Mrs B complained to Creation and it arranged for an independent 
inspection to be carried out. This inspector also agreed that there wasn’t a fault with the sofa 
and that it needed to be dressed. 
Mrs B brought her complaint and it was investigated by one of our adjudicators who didn’t 
recommend that it be upheld. She reviewed both reports and photographs of the sofa and 
concluded that there wasn’t sufficient evidence to show that there was fault with it. Mrs B 
didn’t agree. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mrs B and the problems she is encountering with the sofa. However, I 
haven’t seen evidence to show that the sofa was defective when she bought it. Two experts 
have confirmed there was no evidence of a manufacturing fault. I appreciate that she finds it 
frustrating, and possibly difficult given her medical condition, to plump up the rear cushions, 
but it appears that this is what is required. In my experience it’s not unusual for sofas to 
require such plumping up. 
I note that she says she was told this wouldn’t be an issue with the sofa, but I can’t say with 
any certainty what the salesman said about the cushions. So while she has my sympathy I 
cannot uphold her complaint. 
Ref: DRN4158829
2
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2016.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4158829
