K820x#14
complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a sofa they bought through a credit agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) wasn’t fit for purpose. They want a refund for the 
furniture which they consider to be faulty.
background
Mr and Mrs S entered into a loan agreement with Creation midway through 2012 to buy a 
new sofa.
In 2013 Mr and Mrs S noticed dye was coming off the cushions. Due to their grandson being 
very ill they didn’t report this to the supplier until late 2013. The supplier inspected the sofa 
and concluded there was no manufacturing defect, but that the damage was due to what the 
inspector called human/animal bodily fluids. The supplier, as a gesture of goodwill, replaced 
a cover on the sofa and removed a build-up of what was referred to as head oils.
Mr and Mrs S contacted the supplier again in late 2014 as some leather on the sofa was 
peeling away. The supplier visited and reported the colour loss was due to build-up of head 
oils. The supplier offered to clean and re-colour the sofa as a gesture of goodwill - 
Mr and Mrs S didn’t want this as they felt the previous repairs had failed.
Mr and Mrs S arranged for their own inspection to be carried out. This report, from late in 
2016, didn’t agree with the suppliers inspection. It says that the damage was caused by a 
fault with the finish of the leather.
One of our investigators looked into things and following this Creation arranged for a further 
independent inspection to take place. This report indicated that no manufacturing fault had 
been found and that the damage was due to a mixture of wear and tear and the sofa not 
being cleaned properly.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigator’s 
opinion and so their complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs S’s complaint. I understand they’ve been through a 
very difficult time and this isn’t the outcome they were hoping for, so I hope my explanation 
helps them to understand the reasons.
I’m considering this complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The effect 
of section 75 is that, if Mr and Mrs S have a claim against the supplier of the sofa for breach 
of contract, they might be able to bring a similar claim against Creation. Under the relevant 
legislation, there is an implied term that the goods supplied under a contract should be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. So this is the test that I need to consider here.
I have details of three inspections, one of which has different findings from the other two. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened I make my findings on the balance of 
Ref: DRN4238837
2
probabilities – which is to say, what I find most likely to be the case based on the evidence 
available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I’ve considered all three of the reports and looked at all of the photographs of the damage to 
the sofa. In this case I consider the most recent independent report as the most impartial of 
all the reports, so I place more weight on this. I have read it carefully and I’m satisfied that it 
is a fair assessment. The findings from this are consistent with the findings of the initial 
report that was carried out by the supplier. These conclude that the damage wasn’t caused 
by an inherent fault. So, on balance I can’t fairly say that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when Mr and Mrs S bought it.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr and Mrs S and I am sorry to hear of their loss. I can 
understand the problems they had with their sofa must have been disappointing during what 
would have been a difficult time. But having carefully considered everything, I think it most 
likely that the faults with the sofa weren’t inherent or present at the time they bought it. So 
I can’t fairly order Creation to do anymore.
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs S have mentioned they were considering taking this matter to 
the small claims court. For clarity, if Mr and Mrs S choose not to accept my decision, they 
are free to pursue this matter in court if they wish to do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2018.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4238837
