K820x#14
complaint
Mr K complains about interest being added to his fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
In December 2017 Mr K purchased some sofas and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation. The agreement provided for an interest free period of 12 months, 
with the ability to pay the purchase price in full without any interest on or before 29 
December 2018.
Mr K says he was told by the retailer that the 12 month interest free period wouldn’t start to 
run until he received his goods. The sofas weren’t delivered until March 2018 so Mr K 
presumed the interest free period would run from then.
Creation wrote to Mr K after the agreement started and reminded him that the account could 
be settled free of interest by payment in full by 29 December 2018. Creation also wrote to Mr 
K in November 2018 reminding him again. 
Mr K says he became aware that there was an issue in January 2019 when the full amount 
of interest was added to the loan. He contacted both the retailer and Creation but was 
unable to resolve matters so he complained to this service. Mr K says he’s happy to pay for 
the goods but he doesn’t think he should have to pay interest because he was told that the 
interest free period would run from the date when the goods were delivered, not from the 
date when the agreement was signed.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said the loan documents made it clear that 
the purchase price needed to be settled by December 2018 in order to avoid interest being 
charged. She also said the business had written to Mr K to remind him of this.
Mr K didn’t agree. He said the retailer told him that his payment was due a year after delivery 
and that the paperwork would be amended. He said he was unable to afford to pay the 
interest which had been added to the loan.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says he was told that the 12 month interest free period wouldn’t start to run until the 
goods were delivered. He feels that he was mis-sold the agreement.
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the retailer made an untrue 
statement of fact and that this induced Mr K to enter into the agreement. There are no 
written notes to evidence what was discussed between Mr K and the retailer. I wasn’t 
present so I can’t be certain of what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the 
available contemporaneous documents as the best evidence of what was discussed and 
agreed between the parties.
I’ve looked at the fixed sum loan agreement. This clearly states the “special offer date 
payment” as 29 December 2018. It also states that the total amount of interest payable if the 
Ref: DRN4286910
2
account isn’t settled by that date and sets out what the monthly payments will be from 
January 2019. Mr K has signed the loan agreement and I would have expected him to have 
read it before doing so.
I’ve also taken into account the letters which were sent to Mr K reminding him that payment 
should be made by 29 December 2018. Mr K has said that these letters were sent to the 
address at which the goods were delivered which isn’t his residential address. But he hasn’t 
said that he didn’t receive the letters. In any event, it’s up to Mr K to keep Creation advised 
of his current address.
I’ve taken into account what Mr K has said about his discussions with the retailer. Whilst I 
don’t doubt that Mr K believed that the interest free period ran from the date of delivery, I 
can’t see that he took any actions which were consistent with this. So for instance, when Mr 
K received the reminder letter telling him that payment needed to be made by 29 December 
2018, I would have expected him to contact Creation and query when the interest free period 
was ending.
I can see that Mr K cancelled his direct debit instruction in November 2018. It’s not clear why 
he did this. It’s possible that he cancelled it having received the reminder letter advising him 
that payments would commence in January 2019. But if this was the case I would’ve 
expected Mr K to contact Creation to query the date and explain his actions.
Based on what I’ve seen, and whilst I understand that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr K, I’m unable to uphold the complaint because I’m not persuaded that 
the agreement was mis-sold. I don’t think Creation has done anything wrong in adding 
interest to the loan because the loan documents make it clear that this is what would happen 
if payment wasn’t made by 29 December 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4286910
