K822x
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
Mr T was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as ‘P’, which supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a meeting at his home, Mr T agreed to enter into a contract for P to 
supply and install a solar panel system costing around £7,000. To fund this he also agreed 
to enter in a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr T made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA via his representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr T that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that 
his monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income 
and any savings he’d make by using the electricity generated by his panels rather than 
buying it from his energy provider. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, his monthly loan 
repayments had been much higher than any income and savings he’d made.
In its final response letter, Creation said it was still looking into the concerns that Mr T had 
raised. Unhappy with this response, he referred his complaint to this service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had worked the potential income and savings to Mr T over the10 year 
term of the loan. It said it would restructure the loan to ensure that he didn’t pay any more 
than this over the original term. As Mr T had settled his loan early by refinancing with 
another lender, Creation’s offer was to directly refund him around £2,800. This figure was 
made up of any overpayments Mr T had made as well as 8% simple interest. It also offered 
to pay him £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators reviewed the offer put forward by Creation. She was satisfied that it 
was fair and reasonable. She also recommended that Creation refund Mr T the proportion of 
interest he was charged on the new loan that related to the amount he used to clear the 
Creation loan.
Mr T, via his representative accepted our investigators view.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view. As an agreement couldn’t be reached the 
case has been passed to me to review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that he was approached by P and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
solar panel system would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mr T dispute that 
P misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
Ref: DRN4275605
2
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
Self-funding offer
I’ve considered whether it would be fair to put Mr T back in the position he would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. I think the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr T in a position where his solar panel system is self-funding over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing him to keep the solar panels, I’m satisfied that he 
will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the 
term of the loan has finished). 
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel system. This methodology is based on the 
actual performance and estimated future performance of Mr T’s solar panel system.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr T’s solar 
panels, it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone spends in their home and 
is able to use, or self-consume, the electricity generated by their panels. I’ve considered this 
alongside the other assumptions used by Creation. These include electricity price inflation, 
the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual 
average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions used by Creation provide a fair and reasonable 
basis for calculating fair compensation.
For the reasons I’ve given above, I’m satisfied that Creation’s offer to make the panels self-
funding over the term of the loan is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refinanced loan
Mr T has refinanced his Creation loan with a new lender. At the time he did this he also 
borrowed some additional money for a new purchase.
Our investigator thought that Creation, in addition to its offer to make the panels self-funding, 
should also refund Mr T the proportion of interest he was charged on his new loan that 
related to the amount he used to pay off his Creation loan.
I’ve thought carefully on this point. Mr T agreed to enter into the contract with P on the basis 
that his monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income and any savings 
associated by using the electricity generated by his panels rather than buying it from his 
energy provider. And neither Creation nor Mr T disputes that P had misrepresented the 
benefits of the solar panels at the time Mr T entered into the contract. 
I’m satisfied that if Mr T’s solar panel system had been self-funding, it is unlikely that he 
would have refinanced the Creation loan and therefore incurred the additional interest he 
was charged. This is because the benefits he would have received from his solar panels 
would have been in line with what he would have expected i.e. sufficient to cover his monthly 
loan repayments. 
Ref: DRN4275605
3
As this didn’t happen, Mr T refinanced his Creation loan at a lower rate to mitigate his losses 
as well as borrowing additional funds for a separate purchase. Therefore, I’m satisfied that 
the additional interest he has been charged forms part of the overall cost of the solar panel 
system and he should be refunded this in addition to the self-funding offer.
As the solar panel system wasn’t self-funding Mr T has been charged additional interest. So, 
I’m satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Creation to refund him the proportion of interest 
he was charged on the amount he borrowed to pay off the Creation loan for the reason I 
have explained above.
Summary
In summary, I’m satisfied that the offer put forward to make Mr T’s solar panel system self-
funding over the original term of the loan is fair. My view is that Creation should also refund 
him the proportion of interest he was charged on the amount he borrowed to refinance the 
Creation loan.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr T first 
contacted Creation that means his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this didn’t 
happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and I’ll consequently make an award of 
£100 to cover this.
Ref: DRN4275605
4
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr T’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mr T to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr T from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so that he pays no more than this. Where possible it 
should use Mr T’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of the settlement,

pay Mr T the proportion of interest that he was charged on the amount he borrowed 
to refinance his Creation loan; and,

pay Mr T £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much it has taken off. It 
should also give him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN4275605
