K820x#14
complaint
Mr L complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t tell him when he needed to repay his Buy 
Now Pay Later Plan by to avoid being charged interest. He wants this interest to be removed. 
background
Mr L bought goods on 4 March 2017 using a Buy Now Pay Later plan provided by Creation 
which provided six months interest free finance on the purchase. The plan says if payment is 
made in full before the end date, then no interest will be charged. 
Mr L logged onto his online account to pay the amount in full on 20 September 2017, this 
was before the date of the first direct debit which was due on 28 October 2017. He noticed 
that interest of £43.10 had been applied to the account and questioned this. Creation said 
that as the interest free period had ended on 4 September 2017, and the balance hadn’t 
been paid, interest was applied. 
Mr L says this is unfair. He says that he thought if he made payment by the date of the first 
direct debit then he wouldn’t be charged interest. Mr L says Creation didn’t make him aware of 
when the interest free period ended or warn him that interest would be applied to his account. 
Creation says they wrote to Mr L in advance of the end date, letting him know when he 
needed to pay for the goods without incurring interest. 
An investigator looked into Mr L’s complaint, he said the statements made Mr L aware of 
when the interest free period would end, so he thought Creation had given him the 
information he needed. Mr L disagreed with this and said he didn’t receive the statements. 
Because of this he feels Creation shouldn’t charge him interest on his purchase. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won’t be asking 
Creation to refund the interest charged. I’ll explain why. 
The terms of the agreement say that Mr L needed to repay the amount borrowed before the 
end of the interest free period to avoid interest being charged. They also say Creation will let 
Mr L know when the interest free period will end in the statement issued the month before. 
Creation has provided copies of account statements. The ones for July and August 2017 both 
say in bold the interest free period ends on 4 September 2017 and payment is needed before 
this date to avoid interest being charged. I understand Mr L has said he was told he had until 
the date of the first direct debit to make payment. However I think the statements are clear on 
when the payment needed to be made by, and that it was before the first direct debit date. 
Mr L has said he didn’t receive the statements because Creation had his address recorded 
incorrectly. I’ve reviewed the statements from January to August 2017, and they all have the 
same address. While the address is different to the one we have for Mr L, it’s not completely 
different. It has the same city and postcode, and the other information mostly matches too.
Mr L provided a statement he received dated 7 December 2016, he called Creation after 
receiving his January 2017 statement, and he’s said he received the final response letter. 
These letters were all sent to the same address, and received by Mr L. 
Ref: DRN4699082
2
I’m not persuaded the address Creation had for Mr L meant the statements couldn’t have 
reached him. In any case, it’s most likely the address Mr L gave Creation. And I’m not aware 
of Mr L reporting any issues about receiving correspondence. I also haven’t seen anything to 
suggest any correspondence was returned to Creation as undelivered.
Mr L has questioned whether the statements were sent as they aren’t date and time 
stamped. The statements I’ve reviewed are copies - I wouldn’t expect them to have a time 
and date stamp showing when they were posted. As the statements are unique to Mr L and 
most likely created and sent automatically – meaning little chance of human error - I think it’s 
most likely Creation did send them. 
Overall, I think the statements included the information they needed to. And I think Creation 
sent them to the address they had for Mr L. So I think they did enough to let him know what 
he needed to do to avoid interest being applied. This means I don’t think I can fairly ask 
Creation to refund the interest applied as a result of Mr L not paying for the goods in time.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2018.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4699082
