K820x#14
complaint
Mr U complains that delays in refunding his account led to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) charging late payment fees. He says his credit file was damaged and they 
should not have withdrawn access to an on-line payment facility when his account 
subsequently fell into arrears.
background
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr U, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I can see there were some delays in Creation cancelling a purchase and that this led them to 
believe Mr U had missed payments in January and February 2019. But that wasn’t the case. 
Mr U had simply not paid for an item he had returned. 
late payment charges
I can see that a £30 charge was made to Mr U’s account in January 2019. But when 
Creation realised their mistake they removed this charge. There are no other charges I’ve 
been able to identify that relate to this mistaken missed payment.
credit file
Creation have explained that they’ve removed reference to the January and February 2019 
missed payments from Mr U’s credit file. That seems reasonable. 
I can understand that Mr U would have been upset about any wrongly reported information, 
but I’ve not seen evidence that he was financially disadvantaged by the credit file report. And 
I can see that Creation were fair when crediting his account with £40 to compensate him for 
the delay in reporting the returned item. 
suspension of the On-line Account Manager (OAM) facility
Creation have explained that their terms and conditions allow them to suspend this online 
facility when an account is in arrears. I therefore understand that would be the case when 
Ref: DRN4241217
2
they thought Mr U’s account was in arrears and were unaware of the return of goods. I can’t 
say Creation were therefore wrong to deny Mr U access to the portal and I can see that 
other payment facilities were offered to him to enable payment to be made.
reporting defaults whilst the complaint is in progress
Whilst some companies will be prepared to withhold debt collection activities whilst a 
complaint is in process they don’t have to, and this service can’t insist they do so – it’s a 
business decision for them to make. So, whilst I understand Mr U is unhappy I can’t say 
Creation did anything wrong in that respect.
Overall, I’m persuaded that Creation have done enough to resolve this situation and I’m 
therefore not asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
Fort the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4241217
