K821x#12
complaint
Mr M complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
him in October 2008 by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
The policy was sold with a fixed-sum loan. It provided life, accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. Mr M says the policy was mis-sold because he was led to believe he 
had to have it to take advantage of a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ offer. And he says he 
wasn’t made aware the PPI would attract interest.
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mr M aware of the cost of the policy; in particular the interest charged on 
the PPI and also the effect this would have on his monthly loan repayments. And she didn’t 
think Mr M would have bought the policy if he had been made properly aware of this. 
Creation disagreed. In summary, it said; Mr M had a choice whether to add the PPI to the 
loan; he was given enough information at the point of sale to make him aware of the interest 
charged on the PPI; and it was Mr M’s responsibility to ask for further information if he felt he 
needed it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:

whether Creation gave advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mr M’s needs; 

whether Creation gave Mr M information which was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make an informed choice about the policy he was buying; and

if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mr M is worse off as a 
result (in other words would he have done something different – such as not buy the 
policy – but for any shortcomings?).
did Creation recommend the policy to Mr M?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. And it has provided some 
paperwork to support that assertion; including a key facts document containing a policy 
summary and statement of price. These documents suggest that Creation didn’t give Mr M 
any specific recommendation. 
Ref: DRN4602060
2
Mr M hasn’t said whether he thinks he was given advice or not. He’s told us he signed up to 
the agreement with the PPI ‘automatically added’. He says he did this because he wanted to 
take advantage of the ‘buy now pay later’ offer and was told he could only do this if the 
PPI was added to the finance. 
I’ve taken note of Creation’s argument that Mr M had to tick and sign separately on the credit 
agreement to say he wanted the PPI and that he therefore had a choice whether to buy the 
policy. I do have some concern that Mr M might only have exercised that choice in the way 
he did because he was led to believe he had to do so to get the loan on terms that were 
attractive to him at the time. However, I don’t need to reach any finding on that particular 
point, due to the failings I have identified – and will explain – below. 
Overall – and based on the available evidence – I’m not persuaded that Creation did give 
Mr M a specific recommendation to buy the policy. This in turn means it didn’t have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr M. But it did have to give him enough 
information to allow him to make an informed choice about the policy he was buying. 
did Creation give Mr M enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
It’s here that I think Creation failed to live up to its responsibilities towards Mr M, and why I’m 
not satisfied Mr M exercised his choice to buy the policy in an informed way. I think Creation 
failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mr M, in particular the interest charged on 
it. And I also think that, if he’d known that information, Mr M wouldn’t have bought the policy. 
When explaining why I’ve come to my findings I think it’s important to first consider the 
context in which Mr M bought the policy. He was in a shop, buying a television and stand 
costing around £800. It’s reasonable to assume that Mr M’s primary focus that day would 
have been on choosing the right goods for his needs; not on buying insurance to protect any 
finance he might have chosen to take out to pay for those goods. Putting this another way, 
it’s likely there was a lot going on at the point of sale, and a lot to think about. Mr M says 
(and I am willing to accept) that he was also distracted by the ‘buy now pay later’ offer. So 
only a limited amount of his attention was likely to be given to the information about the 
policy. 
All of this meant it was important for Creation to ensure Mr M’s attention was drawn to the 
important information about the policy which would be likely to affect his decision making. 
One of the most important features was the cost of the policy, including the interest that 
would be charged on it. This is especially so given that this was a single premium policy. 
Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, their cost structure is different – because the initial premium cost is 
often significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This is not a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and is not something Mr M was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was he likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy. 
In the case of the policy sold to Mr M, the premium cost £325, whereas the interest on that 
premium was £400. So the interest on the premium more than doubled the total cost of the 
policy and was substantially higher than the cost of the policy alone. I think this was an 
unusual aspect of this policy and something Mr M is unlikely to have expected. And I have 
no reason to doubt that Mr M would have considered this to be important information, in the 
Ref: DRN4602060
3
context that he was buying non-essential goods of fairly modest cost. And also in the context 
that the total cost of the PPI was almost as much as the base cost of the goods he was 
buying. 
Creation says it did bring the interest to Mr M’s attention. Firstly it says the credit agreement 
set out both the initial premium cost and also the total cost (the premium plus the interest). 
Secondly it says Mr M would have seen the key facts document I referred to earlier in this 
decision, which included a statement of price. The statement of price set out the cost of the 
policy and the interest payable separately.
I don’t agree with Creation’s arguments. 
I say this firstly because the credit agreement was the main finance document and Mr M 
could reasonably expect it to contain the important financial information he needed to know. 
But the credit agreement doesn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. Mr M would 
have had to deduct the PPI premium from the total cost to find out what the interest cost 
was. 
The PPI premium and total amount payable for the policy were only two of several figures on 
the credit agreement. And those figures were only part of a large amount of overall 
information Mr M would have had to take in and decipher. I’m not persuaded Mr M would 
have known that he would have to work out the PPI interest himself, based on the 
information in the credit agreement. And relying on him to do his own calculations (whilst in a 
shop arranging finance to buy goods) couldn’t reasonably be said to be drawing this 
information to his attention in a clear and prominent way. 
The statement of price was on page two of a document titled “Creation Consumer Finance 
CreditCover Life, Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance 
Policy Summary”. Nothing in the title of this document suggests it would contain important 
information about the cost of the policy. Nor does it make Mr M aware that he should look at 
the second page of this document to find out the interest being charged on his PPI premium. 
That wasn’t a prominent location. And I find it unlikely that Mr M would have expected to find 
that information in that location. Yet this was the only document which showed the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. 
The policy summary also didn’t require Mr M to sign to show he had read or received it. 
So I can’t be sure Mr M even saw this document, or that Creation brought it clearly to his 
attention at the point of sale. Even if he did see it, I’m not persuaded Mr M would have 
realised that it contained important information about the cost of the policy over and above 
what he would reasonably have expected to find in the credit agreement itself. Given that he 
didn’t have to sign the policy summary, I also don’t find it likely that Mr M would have given it 
the same level of attention he might have given to the credit agreement – which he did have 
to sign. 
I also note that none of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy, which 
Creation tells us was around £15 (compared to the monthly payments under the loan, with 
PPI included, of £52). Had they done so, this might have better helped Mr M understand the 
cost of the PPI relative to what he was spending on the goods he was buying. As a matter of 
good industry practice this is information I might reasonably expect to see in relation to this 
type of policy. 
Ref: DRN4602060
4
Finally, I also have concerns about the 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ period and the way this 
was explained in the credit agreement. During the deferred period Mr M would qualify for life 
cover under the policy. And if he repaid the finance before the end date he wouldn’t pay any 
interest on his loan, or anything for the PPI. But, if he didn’t repay during the deferred period, 
interest would be calculated from the date of the agreement. The whole balance outstanding 
(which included the PPI premium) would be accruing interest at 32.4% for the whole of the 
deferred period. 
If Mr M didn’t repay within the deferred period (and he didn’t do so) he would have paid a 
substantial additional amount in interest on the single premium PPI policy in the first year; 
when the only benefit gained was the ‘free’ life cover. I have taken into consideration that the 
credit agreement did set out how interest would be calculated. However, it was in a 
paragraph of closely spaced text and not easy for Mr M to find. Again I’m not satisfied that 
this information was enough to make Mr M aware of the implications of how the deferred 
period would affect the interest payable on the PPI premium.  
Creation says the onus was on Mr M to review the information given and ask for further 
information if he didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to provide Mr M with enough information about the main features and benefits 
of the policy to enable him to make an informed choice. 
For the reasons given above I find that Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it 
sold this policy to Mr M, as it didn’t make him properly aware of the cost of the policy. Had 
Mr M been given clearer information – and in the context that he was borrowing a fairly small 
sum where his monthly payments without the policy would have only been around £37 – 
I think Mr M would be unlikely to have seen the policy as offering any real value to him. I find 
that Mr M wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing.
fair redress
I find that, if Mr M hadn’t bought the PPI policy, he would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
Therefore he should be put back in the position he would have been in if the PPI policy 
hadn’t been sold. The loan and the PPI policy had a term of five years (including the 
deferred period) so should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr M because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr M had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mr M actually paid and paying him the 
difference. 
•
paying Mr M interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B.
Write to Mr M to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
Ref: DRN4602060
5
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mr M needs to take any further action will depend on his 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mr M should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if he is unsure of the approach it 
has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mr M compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4602060
