K822x
complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
background 
Mr L was contacted by I-Power Systems (‘I-Power’), a company that supplied and installed 
solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Mr L agreed to enter into a contract with I-Power 
for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about £11,000. To fund this Mr L also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr L made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. He said that I-Power told him that 
the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more 
than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and the savings from using the electricity 
generated by the solar panel system rather than buying it from his energy provider. But that 
hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than the 
income.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr L. Unhappy with this response, Mr L referred his complaint 
to our service.
Following our involvement Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve Mr L’s 
complaint. It had worked out what it considered to be an estimate of the potential savings 
and income to Mr L from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan. It had then 
reworked the loan so that he would pay no more than that over the 10 year term.
One of our investigators looked into the offer put forward by Creation. They felt the offer was 
fair and recommended that Creation pay Mr L £100 to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused.
Creation accepted our investigator’s view. Mr L didn’t.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels 
would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mr L dispute that the benefits of the 
solar panels were misrepresented, this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they would have been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from Mr L’s home. Rather, I think the 
Ref: DRN4098066
2
fair outcome here is to put him in a position where the panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan. By allowing Mr L to keep the panels, I’m satisfied that he’ll likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
Mr L has provided some handwritten figures that suggest the solar panel system would pay 
for itself within five years. I’ve thought carefully on this point. The handwritten figures show 
that Mr L’s benefits within the first year would be £1,370. And on the contract that he has 
signed, the first year’s benefits show as being £1,177.99. So, there is conflicting information 
available to show what the first year’s benefit would be to Mr L. 
Where there is conflicting information available, I need to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened on the balance of probability. Taking the above into account I’m satisfied 
that Mr L was led to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding and come at no 
additional financial cost to him and would also provide him with some benefit over the 
lifetime of the solar panel system. And because of this I’m satisfied making the solar panels 
self-funding over the original term of the loan gives a fair outcome.
I have carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. 
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Mr L’s solar panel system. 
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of 
Mr L’s solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-
consumption rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr L’s solar panels 
that he is expected to use, rather than buying electricity from his energy provider. An 
ombudsman who issued a previous final determination considered that a 50% self-
consumption rate was a fair assumption as this was the assumption used by Government. 
Following further submissions, in a previous decision I was satisfied that a self-consumption 
rate of 37% was reasonable.   
It’s clear that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time someone is in their home 
and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity their solar panel system is generating. It is 
difficult, for the reason described above, to determine an exact figure over the period of the 
loan. And my role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isn’t an exact science.
Having considered all the information available to me, I remain of the view that a 37% self-
consumption rate is fair and reasonable. I’m of the opinion that this takes into account all the 
available evidence and takes into account changing consumer occupancy habits over the 
lifetime of the solar panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m satisfied that it is 
highly likely that Mr L will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a reduction in his 
electricity bills, because of the electricity generated by the panels, and the FIT payments.  
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Ref: DRN4098066
3
Mr L is concerned that the insurer, who backed the guarantee provided with his solar panel 
system, has since gone into administration. He is worried that this means he is now liable for 
any repair costs needed to maintain his solar panel system.
Creation has agreed that as long as Mr L can provide Creation with a copy of his warranty, 
and it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour the warranty. 
This doesn’t guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mr L experience any system 
issues within the original warrantee period, he’d be entitled to raise a claim under the 
warranty and Creation will consider it under the terms of the warranty.
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800.
I accept that Mr L could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of the 
solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for Mr L is to make the solar panels 
self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, as I’ve already 
outlined above, Mr L is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar panel system 
by way of savings and the FIT income going forward. 
In addition, Mr L has the flexibility to be paid a lump sum to cover his overpayments together 
with interest. 
Based on the available information, I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than 
cover any future maintenance costs and Mr L will be able to use his compensation payment 
to pay towards a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons I’ve given above, I’m not persuaded that Creation should make an 
award for maintenance and repairs costs. 
By making the panels self-funding, Mr L’s monthly repayments will reduce, meaning that he 
would’ve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an overpayment. And as 
Mr L would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect Creation to add 
8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. In a case like 
this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr L have the following selection of options 
as to how he’d like their overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and, if a 
balance remains outstanding, he continues to make his current monthly payment 
resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and, if a 
balance remains outstanding, he pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of 
the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Creation that means that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did 
Ref: DRN4098066
4
not happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset so I recommend it pays him £100 to 
reflect this.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr L’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance should:
(a) allow Mr L to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr L from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr L’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) allow Mr L to decide how he’d like the overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;
(e) pay Mr L £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN4098066
