K820x#14
complaint
Mrs G says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (‘PPI’) policy. 
background
Mrs G took out a loan in June 2007. At the same time, she bought a single premium PPI 
policy. Mrs G complained to Creation about the sale of the PPI policy, but it said it hadn’t 
mis-sold it. Mrs G wasn’t happy with this, so she brought her complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator looked at what Creation and Mrs G had told us and thought Creation had 
mis-sold the policy to Mrs G. They said Creation should put Mrs G back in the position she’d 
be in now if she hadn’t bought the PPI policy. Creation agreed with this and said as there 
was still an outstanding balance on Mrs G’s loan, it would use the compensation to reduce 
the balance. It also said it had sold Mrs G’s debt to a third party in June 2009 and sent us a 
copy of its records to show this. 
Mrs G and her representative weren’t happy with this. They said Mrs G was in an individual 
voluntary arrangement (IVA) and the debt she owed Creation formed part of it. Mrs G’s 
representative said Creation should pay the compensation to her insolvency practitioner (IP) 
instead. It also said Creation didn’t have any right to sell the debt to a third party and to 
control the flow of funds associated with the debt, such as compensation for the PPI policy 
mis-sale, under the Insolvency Act 1986.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We expect a business that mis-sold PPI 
with a loan to put matters right by placing the consumer in the position they would be in now 
if they’d taken out the loan without PPI. 
Here, Creation has said that it’s paid the compensation for the PPI policy mis-sale to the 
current owners of the debt, to reduce the outstanding balance. Mrs G’s representative has 
set out the legal reasons why it thinks Creation should pay the compensation to Mrs G’s IP, 
rather than use it to reduce the outstanding amount of the debt. 
I’ve considered what’s been said very carefully. The role of the ombudsman is to resolve 
problems between consumers and financial businesses that they can’t resolve themselves. 
Here, Mrs G hasn’t said she’s unhappy with the amount of compensation she’s been offered 
by Creation. Instead, her representative has relied on some very specific provisions of 
insolvency law to support its argument that the compensation should be paid to Mrs G’s IP. 
It seems to me this is no longer a dispute between a consumer and a business. It now 
seems to me to be a dispute between an ex-creditor and Mrs G’s representative. This 
requires careful analysis of the specific terms of Mrs G’s IVA and insolvency law. This is 
something for a court to do, not this service. Our role is to determine complaints by reference 
to what is, in our opinion, fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case. 
Ref: DRN4124364
2
In this case, I think it’s fair for Creation to use all of the compensation to reduce the amount 
Mrs G owes on the debt originally owned by Creation. If Mrs G had taken out her loan 
without PPI, she would now owe less. So I think Creation’s offer puts her back in the position 
she’d be in now if she hadn’t taken out PPI, which is what I’d expect it to do. So I’m not going 
to ask Creation to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve outlined, I’m not upholding Mrs G’s complaint. I think what Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd has done is fair and I’m not going to ask it to do anything else. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2016.
If Mrs G’s representative or her IP is unhappy with what Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has 
done, this is something for them to sort out through the channels available for disputes about 
how IVAs are managed or through the courts. 
Chloe Wooles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN4124364
