K820x#14
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has unfairly recorded a late 
payment marker on Mrs W’s credit file.
For ease, I will refer to all submissions as being made by Mrs W.
background
Mrs W had held an account with Creation for some five years.  Whilst checking her credit file 
in early 2017, she noticed that it (Creation) had recorded a late payment marker on her 
account.
When Mrs W investigated further, she realised that her usual monthly direct debits to 
Creation had been cancelled since the previous November.  She queried with both her bank 
and Creation and was told that it looked as if she had, albeit mistakenly, cancelled the direct 
debit herself.
When she complained further to Creation, she asked that it remove the late payment 
markers.  The account had since been settled in full and Mrs W was concerned about the 
impact which the marker would have on her future applications.
Creation did not uphold her complaint – but as a gesture of goodwill, it offered, and paid, 
£50.
When our adjudicator looked into this complaint, she did not think she could ask Creation to 
do anymore.  She told Mrs W that Creation had written to her when the direct debit was 
cancelled in November 2016.  But Mrs W had moved address and had failed to update her 
new address with Creation.  The letter, therefore, had not reached her.
Mrs W asked that an ombudsman consider her case.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and based on what I have seen, I cannot 
ask Creation to do anymore.
It seems to me that that this direct debit was mistakenly cancelled by Mrs W.  She tells us 
that she is not an active online banking customer but her records from her bank show that 
she was online on the day that this direct debit was cancelled.
I have no doubt that this was an error on her part and I can see that when the issue came to 
light, payment was made in full in order to clear the balance.
But what I need to decide is whether Creation has done anything wrong her and whether I 
can fairly ask it to remove the late payment markers on Mrs W’s credit file.
I don’t think it has.  It contacted Mrs W when the direct debit was cancelled – but it was not 
to know that she had moved and that its letter would not reach her.  Not having received a 
response, and with no further payments being made, it accurately recorded the markers.
Ref: DRN5920277
2
I don’t know why Mrs W did not update her address – but she accepts that she hadn’t.  So, 
I’m afraid I think it would be unfair to say that Creation has done anything wrong here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2018.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5920277
