K821x#12
complaint
This complaint is about a single premium policy which provided life, hospitalisation and 
personal accident cover. The policy was sold by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd in 
connection with a loan Mr B took out in May 2006. Mr B says this was mis-sold because he 
was not working at the time so it was pointless for him to have the insurance. 
my findings
I have carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in 
order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I have also taken into 
account relevant regulatory rules as well as the law and good industry practice at the time 
the policy was sold.
Our general approach to considering complaints about the sale of PPI can be found on our 
website. And although the policy Mr B took out was not a PPI policy I think the relevant 
issues I need to consider are the same. 
The key questions I need to consider therefore are: 

if Creation gave any advice or recommendation did it take adequate steps to ensure the 
product it recommended was suitable for Mr B’s needs; and 

did Creation give him information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he was put in 
a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he was buying; 
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I then need to consider whether 
Mr B would have acted differently if it had not done so.
Creation says it did not recommend the policy to Mr B but provided him with information so 
he could make an informed decision. Mr B cannot recall whether a recommendation was 
made. I understand the policy was sold during a telephone conversation following which 
Mr B was sent a ‘Key Facts’ document which indicates this was a non-advised sale. So 
although I cannot be sure what was said when Mr B spoke to Creation I think it most likely it 
did not recommend this policy to him. 
This means Creation did not have to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr B. But it still had 
to ensure he was provided with information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make an informed choice. 
did Creation meet Mr B’s information needs?
The policy did not provide hospitalisation cover where the claim related to “any pre-existing 
medical condition which persists or returns during the first 24 months of your start date”. And 
it does not appear clear information about this was provided to Mr B before he agreed to 
take the policy out. Creation has not provided a telephone script relating to this sale; it has 
only sent a script which would have applied to the sale of a payment protection insurance 
policy. So I cannot give significant weight to this. 
Even if a similar script was used in this case I do not think it would have clearly drawn Mr B’s 
attention to the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions. I appreciate the script 
does prompt the adviser to say “Please note that the policy will not cover those who have 
Ref: DRN5100838
2
pre-existing conditions”. However, it provides no further detail about what this means and 
does not make clear that the definition of a pre-existing condition in the policy document 
includes “related conditions and / or associated symptoms”. 
Creation has drawn attention to information Mr B was sent after the call which it says would 
have included the policy document. It says as this was a non-advised sale it was his 
responsibility to take into account any pre-existing condition before deciding whether to take 
out the policy. However, the extent of the exclusion would not have been clear to Mr B from 
the policy summary; he would only have been able to establish this by cross-referencing the 
definitions section of the policy document with that relating to the exclusions. I do not consider this 
was sufficient to meet his information needs. In any case I think it most likely Mr B made his decision 
to take out the policy during his telephone conversation with Creation so it was at that point he should 
have been provided with details of the policy exclusions so he could make a properly informed 
choice. 
And it seems to me this exclusion is something that would have been important to 
Mr B. I understand he was not working when he took out the policy because he suffered 
from severe arthritis which could cause him considerable pain and for which he received 
regular medical attention. I think someone in his circumstances might have thought that any 
future claim against the hospitalisation element of the policy could well be caused by this 
pre-existing condition or something related to it. 
I am also concerned that clear information about the cost and benefits of the policy was not 
provided to Mr B. As the script I have seen does not relate to the policy he actually took out 
I do not know what, if any, information he was provided with about the benefit the policy 
would provide. And while the script suggests he should have been provided with a quote for 
his loan with and without the policy included there is no indication he would have been told 
the premium for the insurance was a separate loan with its own interest. I appreciate more information 
about this is contained on the credit agreement he was then sent but, as set out above, it seems to me 
Mr B decided to take out the policy during the sales call. So I think he would reasonably have paid 
less attention to any documentation he was provided with after agreeing to do. 
The question I must then consider is whether Mr B would have acted differently if Creation 
had provided him with clearer information about this. I note the cost of the policy was around 
£1100 (and would have cost Mr B nearly £1500 if it ran to term). It added around £30 to his 
monthly loan repayments representing an increase in cost of around 17%. And for Mr B to 
benefit from the life or personal accident element of the policy he would need to die or lose 
his sight or a limb (or lose use of a limb) as a result of an accident. I think he might have 
thought the circumstances in which he could benefit from this were relatively limited. And as 
he had a pre-existing medical condition Mr B is unlikely to have derived significant benefit 
from the hospitalisation element of the cover. 
As a result I think that if the costs, benefits and exclusions of the policy had been more 
clearly explained to Mr B it is most likely he would have decided it did not represent good 
value for money and he would have decided against taking it out. 
It therefore follows that I have decided to uphold his complaint. 
Ref: DRN5100838
3
redress
Creation will need to put Mr B back in the position he would have been if he had taken out 
his loan without insurance. I understand the loan and policy ran to term. So it will need to:
(A) work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr B because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if he had taken out the 
loan without PPI.

subtracting those amounts from what he actually paid and pay him the difference 

paying Mr B interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid.†
(B) 
write to Mr B to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation in Mr B’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate tax 
from the compensation and Mr B’s financial circumstances. More information about the tax 
position can be found on our website. Both parties should contact HM Revenue and 
Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to provide redress as set out above. 
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5100838
