K821x#15
complaint
Ms B has complained that she was misled about how she could pay back the finance she 
took out through Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, to pay for her solar panels. 
background
Ms B took out finance for some solar panels. She feels that she was given incorrect 
information by the salesperson about money she’d receive to help with the repayments. 
Specifically, she’s explained that she was told a government grant of up to £15,000 would 
offset the cost of finance. It has since come to light that the grant’s not available. Although 
she’s had some Feed In Tariff (FIT) income, this hasn’t been enough to meet her 
repayments.
Our adjudicator agreed that there’d been a misrepresentation had. His proposed resolution 
was to reduce the total amount owed to £2,466.40. This figured was reached by estimating 
her FIT income over the lifetime of her agreement, and then subtracting the payments she 
had previously made further to her agreement. He also asked that it allow her to reduce her 
monthly payments to £22.42 per month.
Although Creation has accepted there was a misrepresentation, it didn’t agree with the 
proposed resolution. Instead, it offered to reduce the total amount owed to £4,728.28 and 
pay £250 in compensation to Ms B.
As Ms B didn’t accept Creation’s offer, her complaint’s been passed to me for my final 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I feel that the adjudicator’s proposed resolution is reasonable. Ms B has 
explained she wouldn’t have entered into the agreement had it not been misrepresented to 
her – and I accept this. I feel this means she should only have to repay the amount I 
estimate she’ll gain from the panels over the lifetime of the agreement. That totals 
£2,466.40, based on current figures. I accept that current figures may not remain exactly the 
same in the future. But they’re the closest figures I have, so I think it fair to use them.
However, I do not agree with our adjudicator’s proposal that Ms B only be required to pay 
£22.43 each month. This is because she’s been able to afford her usual payments up until 
this time. I therefore feel she should maintain her previous payment schedule of £125.84 per 
month. This was also shorten the length of the agreement.
I am aware that Creation offered Ms B £250 in recognition of the upset the matter’s caused. 
I thank it for this, and agree it’s fair.
Ref: DRN5153127
2
my final decision
For the reasons given above, it’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to reduce the amount repayable to £2,466.40. It must also 
pay Ms B £250 for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2015.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5153127
