Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B either to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2015.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service
complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd did not investigate one of his accounts when 
he asked it to, meaning the direct debit was not taken and the account was passed to a debt 
collection agency.
our initial conclusions
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that Mr B 
made a mistake when he cancelled his direct debits, but that he told Creation in April 2014. 
Creation didn’t take the direct debit until February 2015. She recommended that Creation pay Mr B 
£125, in addition to the £75 already paid.
Creation responded to say, in summary, that the accounts were not linked, that it had not been 
told of a change of address for the first account, and that it acted swiftly to amend Mr B’s credit 
file. It agreed to pay him an additional £25.
my final decision
To decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint, I have considered everything that Mr B and 
Creation have provided.
Mr B made a mistake when he cancelled his direct debits. When he realised, he contacted 
Creation. He was clear there were two direct debits, but Creation only updated its records for one 
account. I consider Creation should have reasonably realised the accounts were linked from the 
conversation it had with Mr B when he arranged the second loan. I also think Mr B made it clear 
that there were two direct debits when he phoned it in April 2014. Creation acknowledged its 
mistake and paid Mr B £75. Since the complaint was referred to this service, it has also amended 
Mr B’s credit file. But, like the adjudicator, I think Creation could have resolved this more quickly 
and so, taking into account the impact on Mr B’s ability to obtain credit during this period, I think it 
is reasonable that it should pay additional compensation of £125.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr B 
£125, in addition to the £75 already paid.
Ref: DRN5181180
The ombudsman may complete this section where appropriate – adding comments or further 
explanations of particular relevance to the case. 
ombudsman notes 
 
what is a final decision?

A final decision by an ombudsman is our last word on a complaint. We send the final decision 
at the same time to both sides – the consumer and the financial business.  

Our complaints process involves various stages. It gives both parties to the complaint the 
opportunity to tell us their side of the story, provide further information, and disagree with 
our earlier findings – before the ombudsman reviews the case and makes a final decision. 

A final decision is the end of our complaints process. This means the ombudsman will not be 
able to deal with any further correspondence about the merits of the complaint. 
what happens next? 

A final decision only becomes legally binding on the financial business if the consumer 
accepts it. To do this, the consumer should sign and date the acceptance card we send with 
the final decision – and return it to us before the date set out in the decision. 

If the consumer accepts a final decision before the date set out in the decision we will tell the 
financial business – it will then have to comply promptly with any instructions set out by the 
ombudsman in the decision. 

If the consumer does not accept a final decision before the date set out in the decision, neither 
side will be legally bound by it.
Ref: DRN5181180
