K820x#13
complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
isn’t of satisfactory quality. He also complains that errors have been made with his direct 
debit and Creation wrongly told him he was in arrears.   
background
Mr M got his car in October 2014. A few weeks later Mr M had to take the car back because 
there were a number of problems with the car. The car was repaired and given back to Mr M. 
A short time later Mr M explained that there was a noise when the car went over speed 
bumps. The garage looked at this problem and did some more repairs. Mr M is unhappy 
about the amount and extent of the problems with the car. He says that the problems haven’t 
been fixed properly and he would like to reject the car. Creation arranged for the car to be 
inspected and following that inspection it says that the problems with the car have been 
repaired. Mr M arranged his own inspection and he says that the problems haven’t been 
fixed.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that the complaint was upheld. He thought that the 
inspection reports showed that all the faults had been fixed and there were no ongoing 
problems with the car. He thought that Creation had properly dealt with the problem with Mr 
M’s direct debit. Mr M didn’t agree and said that the adjudicator had misunderstood the 
inspection report he had provided. He said that the error with the direct debit caused him 
anxiety.
 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main problem with the noise seems to be because of a problem with the suspension. 
Although, Mr M was told that the suspension arms were replaced the inspection reports 
agree that this hasn’t been done. The report that Creation asked for says that the noise is 
reasonable. Mr M’s report says the noise is quieter but it’s still there and it should be 
investigated why a car of this age and mileage has this problem. The noise doesn’t affect the 
operation of the car and isn’t a safety issue. The garage has agreed to replace the arms so I 
think it is reasonable to conclude that this can be done and the noise should be fixed. 
 
I’ve looked at the inspection reports and I think that it is reasonable for me to conclude that 
the car is of satisfactory quality. The inspection reports don’t say that the problem with the 
suspension is related to a manufacturing fault. I think it is reasonable to conclude that once 
the arms have been replaced the noise will be fixed. There are some other minor faults with 
the car which the reports suggest are repairable. None of the faults relate to the safe 
operation of the car. The reports don’t say that the car has serious problems that would 
mean it is not of satisfactory quality. I think it would be disproportionate for Mr M to reject the 
car because of the problems he has had. The car is under warranty and so the remaining 
problems can be repaired at no cost to Mr M. Once this has been done Mr M will have the 
car he bargained for. I can appreciate that Mr M has lost faith in the car and he has been 
inconvenienced by the problems. But I can see that Creation paid Mr M £50 to reflect this 
and I think that this is reasonable.
Ref: DRN5183846
2
Mr M has explained that there was a problem with his direct debit and Creation wrongly told 
him his account was in arrears. This has now been sorted out. I can understand why Mr M 
was upset by this, especially because of the problems he has had with the car. Creation has 
now dealt with the problem with the direct debit and amended Mr M’s credit file. It has said 
that it is also looking into Mr M’s complaint about this so I can’t ask it to do any more in this 
decision. Mr M may need to make a further complaint if he is still unhappy. 
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
21 August 2015.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5183846
