K820x#14
complaint
Ms A’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) is that it’s treated her 
unfairly in respect of an insurance policy she held with it.
background
In January 2019, Ms A used a broker to find a car insurance policy with Creation. She 
completed the necessary paperwork, and a credit agreement was sent to her. However, it 
transpired that once an error in her application was corrected (not Creation’s error), her 
monthly premiums reduced. 
Because of the change in the payment amounts, Ms A didn’t want to send back the signed 
credit agreement, and wanted a fresh one with updated (reduced) figures to be sent to her 
instead. 
Creation explained that it couldn’t send a new agreement, and that Ms A’s payments would 
remain at the reduced amount. It said it charged her £10, in accordance with its terms and 
conditions, for its non-receipt of the signed agreement. And confirmed that the policy 
remained in place even without that. 
Ms A complained, but Creation didn’t think it had done anything wrong. So she brought her 
complaint to our service. She felt she’d been treated unfairly, and shouldn’t have been 
charged the £10 for not returning the signed agreement. She felt Creation’s documentation 
was misleading.
Our Investigator carefully considered all of the information, and sought further evidence from 
both parties. He concluded that Creation hadn’t made mistakes, or treated Ms A unfairly, and 
so he couldn’t uphold the complaint. But he did ask Creation to send her a letter confirming 
all of the updated financial information pertinent to her agreement, including what she’d 
already paid and what she was still due.
Ms A disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman’s review.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m in agreement with our Investigator that this isn’t a complaint I can 
uphold.
I can’t say Creation made a mistake in its credit agreement. It was correct at the time of 
printing. But the sums due each month were reduced when Ms A’s information was updated. 
I can appreciate why Ms A would have felt more comfortable with a new credit agreement 
with the updated figures. But given what Creation’s told us, I don’t think it was necessary.
It’s since written to Ms A with a summary of what she’s paid, and what she’s still due. I think 
that’s sufficient reassurance for her in the event things go wrong. 
Ref: DRN5284799
2
Overall, I can’t say Creation’s acted unfairly, or that it’s been misleading in its 
documentation. It’s explained why it charged its £10 fee, and that Ms A can still get this back 
by sending back her signed copy of the agreement. It’s also reassured her that the reduced 
monthly premiums she’s been paying are correct, albeit the agreement contains the original 
figures.
While what’s happened here isn’t ideal, I can’t say Creation’s behaved unreasonably or 
unfairly towards Ms A. I think it’s acted decently towards her since she complained, and I 
don’t think the impact of what happened is sufficient to ask it to pay compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5284799
