K820x#13
complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“the lender”) continued to pursue her 
for a debt that was never hers, and which was fraudulently taken out in her name.
background
A loan was taken out with the lender fraudulently in Mrs C’s name. Despite her telling the 
lender that the debt wasn’t hers it continued to pursue her for a number of years, even after 
Mrs C believed that matters were resolved. All of this caused her significant and prolonged 
distress.
Mrs C complained to the lender, and it sent her a cheque for £75 in compensation. Mrs C 
didn’t feel that this was enough and brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
considered all of the submissions and agreed with Mrs C that an increased offer of 
compensation was warranted. He recommended a settlement of £1000. 
In response the lender agreed to increase its offer to £500 plus solicitor’s costs of circa 
£200. It also confirmed that Mrs C’s details had been deleted from its system and she 
wouldn’t be contacted again.
Mrs C felt that the lender’s increased offer still wasn’t sufficient given the eight years she’d 
waited for a resolution to the matter, and she made a counter-proposal of £850 globally to 
settle the case. This was on the basis that there was only around £300 difference between 
the adjudicator’s figure of £1000 and the lender’s increased offer of £700, and the sensible 
course of action seemed to be to split the difference. 
This proposal was put to the lender with our adjudicator’s endorsement but it didn’t agree, 
saying that it felt its existing offer was already fair and proportionate. 
On this basis Mrs C sought referral to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I haven’t seen anything that would persuade me to depart from the view of 
our adjudicator, which is that the existing offer from the lender is insufficient, and that this 
should be further increased to reflect the genuine worry and upset caused to Mrs C by the 
lender’s continued contact with her over an extended period of years.
It should also be noted that the £850 that Mrs C says that she’ll accept is still less than the 
£1000 our adjudicator suggested in his initial view, and I therefore agree is a genuinely 
pragmatic and fair way of resolving this matter.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, and in so doing direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:-
Ref: DRN5199820
2

Pay £850 compensation directly to Mrs C in the form of a cheque, or if the original 
£75 cheque has been cashed, then the balance of £775.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2015.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5199820
