K821x#15
complaint
Mr D complains that a car he acquired through a fixed-sum loan agreement financed by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In September 2015, Mr D acquired a used car. He says he’s had nothing but problems with 
the car since he got it. In particular, the car started to emit blue smoke within a few weeks. It 
turned out to be an issue with the turbocharger. And although the dealership said it had sent 
the car to a garage to have the turbocharger replaced with a reconditioned part - in April 
2016 the car started to emit blue smoke again. 
Mr D stopped driving the car. He complained to Creation. It didn’t uphold his complaint and 
so he asked us to look at it. 
To support his case, Mr D arranged for an independent inspection of the car. Based on the 
report’s findings, our adjudicator upheld Mr D’s complaint. On balance, she thought the 
cause of the smoke emission in April 2016 was probably linked to the turbocharger fault that 
had manifested itself a few weeks after Mr D had collected the car. So she thought the 
original problem hadn’t been properly fixed. 
Ultimately, our adjudicator asked Creation to: take back the car; refund the deposit and the 
payments made for the period of time Mr D was unable to drive the car; refund the cost of 
the report; and refund the cost of the insurance premiums Mr D paid to drive another car. 
Creation initially agreed to this proposed resolution, as did Mr D. But the dealership strongly 
objected to taking back the car. So Creation asked for an ombudsman’s decision. 
Having reviewed the complaint, I reached a different conclusion to that of our adjudicator. 
I wasn’t satisfied that the most recent fault was present at the point of sale. So I issued a 
provisional decision setting out my reasoning. In summary, I said: 
-
It was disappointing that Creation had changed its position, but that didn’t negate the 
need for me to look carefully at the facts of this case and decide whether I thought 
rejection of the car was appropriate in this case. 
-
I couldn’t hold Creation liable for the poor customer service Mr D had received from the 
dealership. 
-
Overall, I thought the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality when Mr D first acquired 
it. But I thought the repair that took place in September 2015 was a sufficient remedy.
-
I wasn’t satisfied the most recent failure was a point of sale issue. 
-
Even if the recent failure was related to the reconditioned turbocharger, given the 
considerable distance travelled since it was installed, I wasn’t persuaded this was 
anything other than natural wear and tear of a reconditioned part.
-
To put things right, I thought Mr D was entitled to some compensation given the 
turbocharger had failed in September 2015 and given the way Creation had handled 
matters. I thought Creation should refund two monthly payments and I thought it should 
refund any deposit Mr D had paid towards a new agreement. 
Ref: DRN5012879
2
Mr D responded at length to ask me to reconsider my provisional decision. In summary, he 
said:
-
It wasn’t fair for me to review the case when Creation had initially agreed to follow the 
adjudicator’s recommendation and then changed its mind. 
-
I was incorrect to suggest I could not hold Creation responsible for the poor customer 
service Mr D had received from the dealership because Creation was liable for the 
quality of the goods supplied. 
-
He thought either the turbocharger hadn’t been replaced or the garage had failed to 
properly diagnose the initial fault and there was perhaps some other problem present 
from the point of sale that was causing the engine to lose oil.
-
Alternatively, he said if the current issue was in fact with a replacement turbocharger, 
then it hadn’t been replaced with an adequate part. He said the replacement part 
shouldn’t have failed when it did. The turbocharger was a main engine component and 
so should last up to 45,000 miles rather than the 9,000 or so miles it had achieved since 
replacement. What’s more, the replacement part was still under warranty. 
-
The independent report provided by Mr D said it didn’t look like the turbocharger had 
been replaced and so that should have been sufficient evidence to support his case. 
-
He should be reimbursed the cost of the report he had obtained. 
Having considered Mr D’s representations, I agreed to allow Mr D further time to provide any 
other expert evidence he wished to provide. Mr D took the car to a specialist garage and the 
turbocharger was replaced. It seems the car has now been restored to full working order. 
Following this visit to the garage, Mr D submitted more focused submissions. He said the 
replacement part used by the garage was of poor quality and was a non-genuine part. So he 
said it wasn’t a like-for-like replacement. 
Creation, on the other hand, said the part was a like-for-like replacement. It also expressed 
concern about covering the cost of Mr D’s deposit on the replacement car he had ordered. It 
said any reputable dealership should refund the deposit. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role is to decide what, if anything, Creation should do to resolve Mr D’s complaint. In 
doing that, I must decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other 
things) any relevant law. 
Mr D purchased the car using a fixed-sum loan. Legislation says that the finance provider 
can be liable if the goods provided weren’t of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So 
I agree with Mr D that Creation is liable, as the finance provider, for the satisfactory quality of 
the goods provided. However, I cannot hold it liable for the poor customer service that Mr D 
said he received from the dealership. 
In deciding whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account all of the relevant 
circumstances, including the age, mileage and price of the car. Here, the cash price was 
£10,600. The car was just under six years old at the point of sale and had travelled around 
51,360 miles. 
Ref: DRN5012879
3
I acknowledge Mr D’s frustration at the way Creation has handled his complaint. It is 
disappointing that it accepted our adjudicator’s recommendation and then having liaised with 
the dealership it changed its position and asked for an ombudsman’s decision. But I don’t 
think that negates the need for me to look carefully at the facts of this case. And I don’t think 
I can fairly hold Creation to accepting a rejection of the car, when having reviewed the 
complaint, I’m satisfied that the repair work carried out in September 2015 was a sufficient 
remedy for the point of sale issues with this car. 
The first serious problem with the car arose about two weeks after Mr D bought it. The 
engine management light came on and the car was emitting blue smoke. The dealership 
arranged for a garage to look at the car and it turned out to be a problem with the 
turbocharger, which it said was replaced with a reconditioned part. 
Shortly after this, Mr D also experienced other problems with the car, including with the 
battery, the sound system and a leak. I acknowledge that these other issues would’ve been 
frustrating for Mr D, but (aside from the turbocharger) I’ve not seen any evidence to suggest 
that these issues were faults present at the point of sale. And in fairness to Mr D, he seems 
to accept that these are not issues that would have meant the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. 
But I do think the turbocharger fault was most probably present at the point of sale. And 
given the mileage, age and price of the car, I think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when 
Mr D acquired it. But I think replacement of the turbocharger in September 2015 was a 
sufficient remedy for reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr D suggested that I was wrong to conclude that 
the turbocharger had been replaced, and if it had, there was most likely another point of sale 
issue that hadn’t been properly diagnosed. Or alternately, the replacement turbocharger 
wasn’t of sufficient quality. 
Mr D’s most recent submissions have focused on the quality of the replacement 
turbocharger, but for the sake of completeness, I’ve addressed what I consider to be the key 
points he has raised. 
Mr D points to the independent inspection to support his position that the turbocharger 
wasn’t replaced at all. The report noted there was no evidence to suggest that a new or 
reconditioned turbocharger unit had been fitted. 
In my provisional decision, I said I wasn’t persuaded the turbocharger hadn’t been replaced. 
I said I considered it unlikely Mr D would’ve been able to travel the distance he had without 
apparent further issue had the turbocharger not been replaced. 
I acknowledge what Mr D has said about the independent report, but it didn’t go so far as to 
say that the turbocharger hadn’t been replaced and it isn’t clear the inspector knew the car 
had travelled around 9,000 miles from when the part was said to have been replaced. I’d 
expect there to have been a build-up of grease and grime around the part having travelled 
that distance so that the fact it had been replaced might not have been readily apparent. In 
addition, the garage who replaced the part provided a letter confirming it had done so. 
So, I remain satisfied that a replacement turbocharger was installed by the dealership’s 
garage in September 2015. Indeed, since Mr D arranged to replace the turbocharger himself 
in March 2017, his representations are more heavily focused on the fact the replacement 
turbocharger wasn’t of sufficient like-for-like quality. 
Ref: DRN5012879
4
In my provisional decision, I said I couldn’t be sure the turbocharger was the cause of the 
problems experienced in April 2016. This was primarily because Mr D’s first independent 
report said it wasn’t possible to determine the fault without carrying out detailed tests on the 
engine and suggested various possible causes, including, but not limited to the turbocharger. 
Mr D has now submitted new evidence from a mechanic which reports on the repair work 
carried out in March 2017. It says in March 2017 the turbocharger was replaced with a brand 
new one. It seems the car is now working without issue. Given this further evidence, I think 
it’s more likely that the April 2016 problems were linked to the turbocharger. 
The question I then need to consider is whether the replacement turbocharger installed in 
September 2015 was a sufficient remedy. 
Mr D says as this is a high performance car, the replacement turbocharger should’ve been of 
high quality. I disagree. This was a used car that was six years old and had travelled in 
excess of 50,000 miles when the turbocharger first failed. I think it reasonable that a 
commensurate used part was installed. 
I acknowledge the replacement part was non-genuine and Mr D’s comments in respect of 
that, but I don’t think the use of a non-genuine part in a car of this age, price and mileage 
means the replacement part wasn’t of sufficient quality. Equally, I wouldn’t expect a garage 
to fit a brand new turbocharger in a used car of this age and mileage. 
I acknowledge Mr D’s comments about the turbocharger not being a wear and tear part and 
that its life expectancy should be more like 45,000 miles rather than the 9,000 or so miles he 
had achieved. But there are many reasons why parts with longer life expectancy can fail - 
such as maintenance, driving style or wear and tear.
Ultimately, the car had travelled in excess of 60,000 miles when the replacement 
turbocharger failed. So, even based on Mr D’s own expectations, having to replace a 
turbocharger at this stage in a car’s life isn’t unreasonable. And when the car failed in April 
2016, Mr D had travelled a considerable distance from when he first purchased the car. So 
overall I think the replacement part was a sufficient remedy.
That said, the dealership said if the fault was with the turbocharger it was willing to replace it 
- as it occurred within 12 months of the reconditioned part being installed. Mr D has however 
taken matters into his own hands and replaced the turbocharger himself. He’s provided an 
invoice for the cost of this work. I hope the dealership maintains its goodwill position and 
considers some form of contribution to those costs and that Creation does all it can to 
ensure that happens, particularly given the way in which this case has unfolded. But in light 
of my findings, I can’t direct Creation to ensure it does that nor can I ask it to pay the costs. 
But I do think that Mr D is entitled to some compensation for the initial loss of usage when 
the turbocharger first failed. I also have to consider the fact that Mr D told us he acted to his 
detriment by putting down a deposit on a replacement car when Creation said it accepted 
rejection and the additional upset this has caused. 
In my provisional decision, I said it was only fair that Creation refund Mr D any deposit he 
has paid towards a replacement car on provision of proof that a deposit was paid. Mr D can’t 
provide proof of the deposit and so he fairly doesn’t pursue that refund. 
Ref: DRN5012879
5
But given all that has gone on here, I still think Creation should refund two monthly 
repayments. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with my findings, but I’m afraid I can’t agree that rejection of 
the car is appropriate here. It follows that I don’t think he should be refunded all of his 
monthly repayments from April 2016 or the deposit. And as I’ve not been persuaded by 
Mr D’s reports that the replacement turbocharger was an unsatisfactory remedy - it follows 
I don’t think Creation should pay for the cost of those reports or his additional insurance 
costs. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. To settle it Creation should 
refund Mr D two monthly repayments and pay simple interest on the refunded amount at a 
rate of 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2017.
Siobhan Kelly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5012879
