K820x#14
complaint
Mrs A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has treated her unfairly. She says the 
credit broker misled her, after the agreements had been made, about when the interest free 
periods would end. As a result she paid off the loans outside these periods. 
Further she says she has been charged and pursued for interest she doesn’t owe. In 
addition she thinks Creation took £1,700 in payments it was not entitled to take. It gave an 
incorrect settlement figure. And it has caused inaccurate information to be registered on her 
credit file.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator said it was significant that the loans were taken out in 2005. She said it 
wasn’t a surprise given this that she had very little information to work with. But based on 
what she did have she thought she had no proper basis to say that Creation had acted 
unfairly. Because of this it wasn’t fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs A’s complaint.
Creation didn’t tell us whether or not it agreed with our adjudicator’s recommendation. But 
Mrs A said she rejected it. She said she wanted to send us further information and wanted 
an ombudsman to review her complaint. We gave her a deadline to send her new 
information in. The deadline has now passed. We haven’t received the further information.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I don’t think Creation has acted unfairly. It 
follows I’m not going to ask it to take any further action. I realise my conclusion may 
disappoint Mrs A. That’s not my intention. And I explain below my reasons. So even if she 
doesn’t agree with what I say I hope she’ll understand why I’m saying it.
Mrs A says both she and her husband took out loans. But the loans I’ve seen both have her 
down as the only borrower. So I’ve dealt with this complaint as if she were the only eligible 
complainant.
It seems that Mrs A was aware from the beginning that she had a six month interest free 
period on each loan. She also knew when the agreements were taken out. Further, the 
agreements I’ve seen set out how long the interest free periods ran from. I’ve not seen 
anything to suggest that Mrs A didn’t get copies of the agreements at the beginning. Rather 
she says she temporarily lost them.
I realise that she says that when she rang the credit broker, after the agreements had begun, 
it gave her incorrect information about when the interest free periods came to an end. 
Although it’s not clear if the credit broker and Creation accept that this happened. But as I’ve 
mentioned already this wasn’t the only information that Mrs A had about the interest free 
periods. I think she had some responsibility here to keep her own record of these important 
dates. 
Further she didn’t pay off the loans within the interest free period and it seems that she was 
then charged interest, fees and charges. This seems to be in line with the terms and 
conditions of the agreements she accepted.
Ref: DRN5254104
2
For all of these reasons I don’t think it’s fair to say that Creation has treated her unfairly in 
charging her interest or fees or charges on the loans.
Mrs A hasn’t shown why the settlement figure is incorrect she has just told us it is based on 
a very simple calculation she’s done. Settlement figures are not straightforward. I would 
need more information than this to be able to agree with her. Neither has she provided me 
with enough information for me to fairly say that Creation did take money from her after she 
paid a lump sum and that it wasn’t entitled to do this.
This complaint has been ongoing of years and it seems the interest, charges and fees are 
mounting up because of this. It seems Creation has sold on the debt. It’s likely too that the 
new debt owner is registering information about the amount it says it is owed and overdue 
payments on Mrs A’s credit file. But on balance, as I’ve said, I’m not as sure as I need to be 
that Creation acted unfairly. I cannot fairly say it should now contact the debt owner to ask it 
to remove this information or buy back the debt so that it could do this itself.
It follows that I think it’s not fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2016.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5254104
