K821x#15
complaint
Mrs B complains about how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled matters when she 
questioned why it was seeking payments from her, as she was not aware of having any 
credit agreement.
background
In March 2015 Mrs B arranged to buy solar panels costing over £7,000 from a business I 
shall call Z, and signed various documents. She signed a “buy now pay later” finance 
agreement with Creation, which meant that if she paid the full sum (plus a £75 fee) within six 
months she need pay no interest. In August 2015 she got a letter from Creation reminding 
her that the six months would be up in September. But Mrs B thought she had already 
bought the panels outright. She telephoned Z, and cancelled a direct debit to Creation. 
Creation wrote to her about the cancellation in October and Mrs B telephoned Creation 
saying she had already paid for the panels. Creation said it would investigate. It responded 
in January 2016. Later that month Mrs B paid Creation the cost of the solar panels, and in 
February paid an additional sum (of over £1,400) to pay off the account, in an early 
settlement of the credit agreement. Mrs B would like Creation to refund that additional sum.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint was upheld. She said that she didn’t 
think Creation had been wrong to expect Mrs B to pay the interest and charges on the 
account, as it had written to warn her that they would be imposed if she did not pay by the 
due dates. But she recommended that Creation paid Mrs B £100 in compensation because 
the situation had continued for an extra month, due to Creation’s delay in responding to her 
complaint. 
Initially neither Mrs B nor Creation responded. So the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. Creation did then respond whilst I was considering matters. It said that the relevant 
complaint was received on 24 March and resolved without delay, within 24 days. It 
acknowledged that Mrs B had made an earlier complaint, but said that was not the one being 
considered here.
 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesn’t seem to be any dispute that Mrs B did sign the credit agreement, which is 
clearly headed to show that it is for a loan from Creation, rather than any agreement with Z 
directly about the solar panels. From Mrs B’s own account a confirmation letter sent the next 
day also referred to the remaining balance of the account being paid by Creation on 
completion: but Mrs B says that didn’t register with her.
It also seems clear that Mrs B got the reminder letter Creation sent: but instead of contacting 
Creation at that point she just contacted Z. I appreciate that, from what she says, Mrs B was 
having some personal difficulties at the time. But, particularly given the significant sum of 
money involved, I think I would still have expected her to check on her own records to see 
whether indeed she had already paid in full  - rather than just cancelling the direct debit 
without doing that or making any contact with Creation.
Ref: DRN5439571
2
By the time Mrs B did contact Creation, the six months had run out and the interest was due. 
But Mrs B still thought she had already paid, and waited until she got a delayed complaint 
response in January 2016 before checking her accounts and finding that in fact she had not 
done so. 
When I think Mrs B was given a reasonable opportunity to pay for the panels before any 
interest was due, I don’t think I have grounds to say that she should have the additional 
payment refunded. 
I appreciate that Creation has more than one complaint logged separately in its system. But 
the complaint made via this service in March 2016 (which I am considering) actually also 
covered Mrs B’s dissatisfaction with Creation’s response to her initial complaint (made in 
October 2015) about being unaware she had a credit agreement. So I think the delay in 
response to the initial complaint does fall within the scope of this complaint. Like the 
adjudicator I think that a payment of £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble caused by the delay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint to the limited extent described above. In full 
and final settlement I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2016.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5439571
