K821x#14
complaint
Mrs E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy. 
background
In 2007 Mrs E bought an electrical item in a shop and she took out a £399.88 loan to pay for 
it. At the same time, Creation sold her a PPI policy. The policy cost £208.04, which was 
added to the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mrs E wouldn’t pay any interest if she 
paid off the credit before that date. Otherwise she’d pay interest (including £198.25 of 
interest on the policy) over the remaining 48 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs E’s complaint. They didn’t think that Creation had properly 
explained how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mrs E would’ve bought the 
policy if it had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mrs E was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs E’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mrs E how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mrs E bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs E to work 
out the interest herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the 
cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs E would expect it to be. And I can’t be sure 
it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a shop and her attention was 
on buying her goods – not on buying insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mrs E to understand what the policy was costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mrs E aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 32.4%. This meant Mrs E would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on 
the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN5139141
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mrs E was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mrs E would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as she was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly short term. 

I don’t think Mrs E would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs E’s complaint. 
fair compensation 
Mrs E should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy will now have run for their full 
term. 
Creation should now therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs E because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs E had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mrs E actually paid, and paying her the 
difference; and
•
paying Mrs E simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B.
Write to Mrs E setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs E needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mrs E 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mrs E’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must pay Mrs E fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2014. 
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5139141
