K821x#14
complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold her a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy when she took out a £2,000 loan by 
telephone in 2009. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and repaid over the loan 
term.
background
Two adjudicators said Miss B’s complaint should be upheld. They didn’t think Creation had 
made it clear to Miss B that she had a choice about buying the policy. And they also didn’t 
think Creation had properly told her how much the cover would cost. The adjudicators 
concluded that Miss B wouldn’t have bought the policy if she had known these things. 
Creation disagreed. It said the sales script and loan agreement made clear the policy was 
optional. And the paperwork it sent to Miss B also explained what the policy cost.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss B’s complaint, because:
•
Creation effectively sold the policy to Miss B over the phone. So she would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on anything she got in writing 
afterwards. But Creation didn’t make clear during the telephone call that Miss B had 
a choice about buying the policy. 
•
The telephone script Creation says would have been followed only gave one brief 
mention of the policy being optional. It didn’t ask for Miss B’s explicit consent to add 
the PPI to the loan. And the credit agreement she received afterwards also didn’t 
make clear that the policy was optional; particularly if that wasn’t first made clear 
during the call. 
•
The brief mention of cancellation rights wasn’t enough to make Miss B aware she 
had a choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given her the confidence 
to cancel the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told her she had a choice about 
whether to buy it.
•
I can see that Miss B ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that 
didn’t describe the PPI as optional. And by then the PPI looked like an integral part of 
the loan. The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Miss B didn’t tick and sign. 
And although the very last sentence on the statement of price said it was ‘not a 
requirement’ of the loan to buy the policy, this could be easily overlooked. 
•
The script didn’t properly disclose the policy costs. The credit agreement did set out 
the single premium (£480.77) and the total cost of the PPI (£716.65). But it didn’t set 
out the interest (£235.88) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to 
Ref: DRN5522073
2
expect Miss B to work out that figure for herself. She was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.  
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Miss B would expect it to be.   
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would have 
been good practice and it might have helped Miss B to better understand what the 
policy was costing her.  
•
I don’t think Miss B would have bought the policy if she’d been made properly aware 
she had a choice, or if she’d known how much it was going to cost her, compared to 
the amount of the loan and what she was paying for it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Miss B’s complaint.
fair compensation 
Miss B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Miss B needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Miss B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss B paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on†.

If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Miss B’s complaint is upheld. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Miss B compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2015.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN5522073
