K821x#12
complaint
Mrs R complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her in 2007 over the telephone by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. The policy covered a 
£5,000, five-year personal loan. It provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Mrs R says the policy was mis-sold. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld, because he didn’t think Creation 
had made Mrs R aware that the policy was optional. And he also didn’t think Creation had 
made the costs clear enough. Creation disagreed, so the case has been referred to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
did Mrs R have a real choice about whether to buy the policy?
First and foremost, I have considered whether Creation made clear to Mrs R that the policy 
was optional – and that she could choose to buy it, or not. 
The policy was sold to Mrs R during a telephone call. Creation hasn’t been able to provide a 
call recording. It has provided a script it says would have been followed. I have considered 
that script in conjunction with the documents Creation says would have been issued to 
Mrs R immediately afterwards. And I have also considered what Mrs R says she remembers 
about the way the policy was sold to her. After considering the available evidence, I’m not 
satisfied that Creation made the optional nature of the policy clear to Mrs R. 
Having carefully reviewed the call script, the first point I will make is that I can’t know for 
certain what Mrs R was actually told, or whether the script was followed as diligently as 
Creation says it would have been. But, even if I assume for the purposes of this decision that 
the script was followed faithfully, it doesn’t give me any comfort that the optional nature of 
the policy was made clear to Mrs R. 
The script itself is quite short. It didn’t require the call handler to clearly explain that the 
policy was optional. It also didn’t require the call handler to gain Mrs R’s explicit consent 
before adding the policy to her loan. 
I’ve noted the section of the script which reads:
“If you are passed for the credit amount that you have applied for, the monthly 
repayment amounts will be; (INCLUDED QUOTE WITH PAYMENT PROTECTION 
AND WITHOUT).”
Ref: DRN5575570
2
Creation argues that the provision of quotes with and without PPI would make the optional 
nature of the policy apparent to Mrs R. I disagree. I say this because the script doesn’t offer 
any level of detail about precisely what form those quotes took, how they were delivered and 
also to what extent the ‘without’ quote would have been given any prominence – especially 
when it seems the ‘with’ quote would have been given first. This section of the script is, in 
fact, un-scripted and therefore open to interpretation by each call handler. I’m not satisfied 
that the reference to quotes is enough to show that the optional nature of the policy was 
made clear. 
I’m also concerned that the quotes followed immediately on from a statement indicating that 
the customer’s loan hadn’t yet been approved. I’ve considered this in light of Mrs R’s 
recollections that she was led to believe she had to have the PPI to have her loan approved. 
When viewed in conjunction with a script which leaves me with no confidence that the 
optional nature of the policy was made explicitly, or even implicitly, clear, I find Mrs R’s 
submissions plausible and persuasive. 
Similarly, I don’t find that the brief reference to statutory cancellation rights would have been 
enough to make Mrs R aware that taking the policy out was entirely her choice. Nor do 
I think it would have given her the confidence to cancel the policy where she hadn’t first been 
made aware that it was optional. 
Creation argues that the sale wasn’t concluded by telephone, but rather when Mrs R signed 
the credit agreement. It points to the fact that she ticked a box and also signed a separate 
section of the credit agreement to say she wanted to take out the policy. I’ve given this 
careful thought, but again I don’t accept Creation’s arguments. 
The credit agreement already included the PPI. And it followed on from a sales call in which 
the optional nature of the policy wasn’t explained and where Creation didn’t gain Mrs R’s 
consent to have it added to the loan. 
It’s reasonable to conclude that Mrs R would place greater reliance on what she was told 
during the telephone call, than on anything she received in writing afterwards; because it’s 
during the call that the policy was sold to her. So it’s during the telephone call that Creation 
should have made clear to Mrs R the optional nature of the policy. For the reasons I’ve 
already explained, I find that it failed to do so. 
The credit agreement itself didn’t say the policy was optional. And it didn’t explain what 
would happen if the loan applicant chose not to tick and sign to accept the policy. 
Presumably the loan agreement would have had to be returned to Creation and re-drawn – 
potentially delaying the release of the loan (or at least I can appreciate that a loan applicant 
might be concerned about that happening). 
Again I’m not persuaded that Mrs R would have understood, from the information in the 
credit agreement, that she had a real choice about whether to accept the policy. She’s said 
she ticked and signed to accept the policy because she’d already been led to believe she 
had to do so to get the loan. As the PPI appeared, by then, to be an integral part of the 
figures in the loan agreement, and in the overall context of how the sale unfolded, I find this 
persuasive. 
I’ve also considered the rest of the documents Creation says Mrs R would have been 
provided with; in particular the ‘policy summary’ which contained a demands and needs 
statement and a statement of price. 
Ref: DRN5575570
3
I note that the very last sentence on the bottom of the statement of price says “It is not a 
requirement of your credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that you purchase 
Creditcover.” But again I don’t think this was enough to make Mrs R aware of the optional 
nature of the policy, because:

it isn’t clear whether Mrs R ever saw this document or had it adequately drawn to her 
attention, or when and how this would have been done;

(even if she saw it) it’s unlikely that Mrs R would have given the policy summary (which 
she didn’t have to sign) the same degree of attention as she would have given to the 
credit agreement (which she did have to sign); and

(as I’ve already mentioned) the above sentence was the very last piece of information 
on page two of this document – and so it wasn’t in a prominent location and could be 
easily overlooked.
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Mrs R that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental 
failing on Creation’s part. I therefore uphold Mrs R’s complaint on this basis. 
other failings
In light of my findings above I don’t need to go on to consider any further aspects of the way 
the policy was sold. However, for the sake of completeness I will add that I also agree with 
the adjudicator’s finding that Creation failed to meet Mrs R’s information needs. Specifically, 
that it failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mrs R. I say this because:

(Leaving aside for a moment the wider concerns I’ve already expressed above) the 
script didn’t require the call handler to disclose the single premium cost, the interest 
charged on that single premium, or the total cost of the policy. Mrs R also wouldn’t have 
been told that the premium would be added to her loan and that it would bear interest. 
I have no reason to doubt that this would have been important information for Mrs R. 
And it should have been disclosed to her during the call, but was not.

The credit agreement was the main finance document, but it didn’t show the PPI interest 
as a separate figure. Mrs R would have had to deduct the PPI premium from the total 
cost to find out what the interest cost was. These items were only two of several figures 
on the credit agreement – and were themselves only part of a large amount of overall 
information Mrs R would have had to review. I’m not persuaded she would have known 
that she would have to work out the PPI interest herself – particularly off the back of a 
telephone conversation where the interest-bearing nature of the premium, as well as 
other important information about the cost of the policy, wasn’t discussed at all. 

I’ve already explained that I can’t be sure Mrs R would have seen the policy summary 
and statement of price, or had it adequately drawn to her attention. Yet this was the only 
document which showed the PPI interest as a separate figure. Nothing in the title of this 
document suggests it would contain important information about the cost of the policy. 
Nor does it make Mrs R aware that she should look at the second page of this document 
to find out the interest being charged on her PPI premium. That wasn’t a prominent 
location. 
Ref: DRN5575570
4
This was a single premium policy; paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, its cost structure was different – because the initial premium cost was 
significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This wasn’t a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and not something Mrs R was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was she likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy.
Creation says Mrs R should have asked for further information if she didn’t understand 
something. However, it was Creation’s responsibility to provide Mrs R with enough 
information about the main features and benefits of the policy to enable her to make an 
informed choice. Creation should have ensured that Mrs R’s attention was drawn to the 
important information about the policy which would be likely to affect her decision making.
In this case I’ve already concluded that Mrs R didn’t make a decision – because she wasn’t 
made aware the policy was optional. But, even if Creation had made Mrs R aware that she 
had a choice, I’m not persuaded it met its responsibility to give her enough information to 
make an informed choice. I have no reason to doubt that the cost of the policy would have 
been important to Mrs R. I’m satisfied that, if she’d been told in a clear and fair way about 
the cost of the policy, she wouldn’t have taken it out.
fair redress
I find that, if Mrs R hadn’t bought the PPI policy, she would still have gone ahead with the 
loan. Therefore she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the 
PPI policy hadn’t been sold. The loan and the PPI policy had a term of five years so should 
by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs R because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs R had taken out 
the loan without PP;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs R actually paid and paying her the 
difference; and

paying Mrs R interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is 
paid†.
B. Write to Mrs R to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs R needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website. 
Ref: DRN5575570
5
Mrs R should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs R compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5575570
