K820x#14
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) won’t meet the cost of 
repairing his car under a warranty that he bought with a loan provided by Creation. He brings 
his complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr T bought a used car in January 2014 from a car retailer I’ll call “R”. At the same time he 
also bought from R a four year guarantee which would cover components and electrical 
items that suddenly failed and stopped working during this period. Both the car and the 
guarantee were financed by a loan from Creation to Mr T, with combined monthly 
instalments of £196.58 each month. The car was bought for the use of Mr T’s son.
In 2015, R went into administration and Mr T’s daughter in law wrote to Creation in May 
2015 pointing out that because of this, the guarantee Mr T had paid for was no longer 
available. In August 2015, Creation wrote to Mr T telling him that because the guarantee was 
no longer available, it would remove the whole cost of this, and the interest charged on it, a 
total of £1,552.63, from his account. Because he was still paying for the car, his monthly 
instalments would continue unaltered at £196.58 each month. But the loan agreement would 
come to an end earlier.
In November 2015, the car broke down. Mr T was told that there was a problem with the 
gearbox which would cost some £2,000 to repair. Mr T said he had never received the letter 
from Creation saying it had refunded the warranty cost, and had never agreed to this. So he 
said that Creation should meet the cost of repairing his car under section 75. When Creation 
wouldn’t agree, he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She considered 
whether the car had an inherent defect when it was sold to Mr T for which Creation could be 
held responsible under section 75. However, the gearbox failed approximately one year and 
nine months after he bought the car, during which it had covered 12,556 miles. So she 
couldn’t say the car was not of satisfactory quality when sold.
When the complaint to Creation was made in May 2015 about R being unable to honour its 
guarantee, there were a number of options available to Creation to remedy this breach of 
contract by R. It could, for example, have tried to source, and pay for, an alternative repair 
guarantee. However, repair guarantees offered by companies differed, and it could be 
difficult to source like for like cover.
Mr T had had one claim paid for by R under the guarantee earlier, before R went into 
administration. So Mr T had received some benefit from the guarantee. Creation had 
refunded the whole cost of the guarantee, including associated interest, and the adjudicator 
thought this was a fair resolution.
Mr T responded to say, in summary, that he wasn’t given the opportunity to consider what 
Creation was offering, or to seek a guarantee from another provider. As his payments 
continued at the same rate, he wasn’t aware of what had happened. He was left with a car 
he couldn’t afford to repair.
Ref: DRN5422048
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator, I can’t say that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when sold, because 
of the time that passed before it broke down, and the miles it covered. So I can only say that 
Creation should be responsible for repairing the car under section 75 if I think it hasn’t 
treated Mr T fairly in respect of the guarantee.
Mr T first complained to Creation about the guarantee no longer being available in May 
2015. Creation wrote to Mr T in August 2015 telling him what it would do. Mr T says he didn’t 
receive that letter, so wasn’t aware of what Creation had decided. However, I’m satisfied that 
the letter was sent, whether or not it was received by Mr T. And he doesn’t seem to have 
followed up his earlier complaint, and asked Creation what it was prepared to do. Only in 
November 2015, after his car broke down, did he contact Creation again and ask it to pay for 
the repair under the warranty.
Like the adjudicator, I think that what Creation offered, and implemented, in August 2015 – 
full reimbursement of the cost of the guarantee and associated interest – was reasonable 
compensation for R’s inability to perform the guarantee contract. This is particularly the case 
because Mr T had already been able to claim on the guarantee, and there was no indication 
in August 2015 that the guarantee would be called on again. In these circumstances, I don’t 
think it would now be reasonable for me to require Creation to reverse the compensation 
arrangement it made in August 2015.
my final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, my decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and 
make no order against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2016.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5422048
