K821x#12
complaint
Mr T complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
him in October 2005 by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
The policy was sold with a fixed-sum loan. It provided life, accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. Mr T says the policy was mis-sold. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mr T aware of the cost of the policy. And she also didn’t think Creation had 
done enough to show that Mr T had actually agreed to buy it. 
As Creation disagreed, the case has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:

whether Creation gave advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mr T’s needs; 

whether Creation gave Mr T information which was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make an informed choice about the policy he was buying; and

if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mr T is worse off as a 
result (in other words would he have done something different – such as not buy the 
policy – but for any shortcomings?).
did Creation recommend the policy to Mr T?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. And it has provided some 
paperwork to support that assertion; including a key facts document containing a policy 
summary and statement of price. These documents suggest that Creation didn’t give Mr T 
any specific recommendation. 
Mr T says this was an advised sale. But he hasn’t given any specific details about why he 
thinks that, beyond saying that the salesperson didn’t explain the policy to him and that he 
felt forced to take it out. 
Overall I’m not persuaded that Creation did give Mr T a specific recommendation to buy the 
policy. This means it didn’t have to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr T’s 
needs. But it did have to give him enough information to allow him to make an informed 
choice about the policy he was buying. 
Ref: DRN5394405
2
did Creation give Mr T enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
It’s here that I think Creation failed to live up to its responsibilities towards Mr T. I find that 
Creation failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy, in particular the interest charged on 
it. And I think that, if Mr T had been given that information, he wouldn’t have bought the 
policy. 
When explaining my findings I think it’s important to first consider the context in which Mr T 
bought the policy. He was in a shop, buying a fridge freezer costing around £600. It’s 
reasonable to assume that his main focus would have been on choosing the right item for his 
needs; not on buying insurance to protect any finance he might have chosen to take out to 
pay for that item. Mr T also says (and I accept) that the salesperson didn’t offer any 
explanation about the PPI. So it seems unlikely that much, if any, of Mr T’s attention was 
directed towards the information about the policy. 
It was important for Creation to ensure Mr T’s attention was drawn to the important 
information which would be likely to affect his decision making. One of the most important 
features was the cost of the policy, including the interest that would be charged on it. This is 
especially so given that this was a single premium policy. 
Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, their cost structure is different – because the initial premium cost is 
often significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This is not a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and is not something Mr T was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was he likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy. 
In the case of the policy sold to Mr T, the premium cost £274.56. The interest on that 
premium was £337.41. So the interest on the premium more than doubled the total cost of 
the policy and was substantially higher than the cost of the policy alone. I think this was an 
unusual aspect of this policy and something Mr T is unlikely to have expected. And I have no 
reason to doubt that Mr T would have considered this to be important information, in the 
context that he was buying a non-essential item of fairly modest cost. And also in the context 
that the total cost of the PPI was more than the base cost of the item he was buying. 
Creation says it did bring the interest to Mr T’s attention. Firstly it says the credit agreement 
would have set out both the initial premium cost and also the total cost (the premium plus the 
interest). Secondly it says Mr T would have seen the key facts document I referred to earlier 
in this decision, which included a statement of price. The statement of price set out the cost 
of the policy and the interest payable separately.
I don’t agree with Creation’s arguments. 
I say this firstly because Creation hasn’t been able to provide us with a copy of the credit 
agreement itself (and I’ll explore the implications of this later in this decision). It has only 
provided the pre-contract information. 
I accept that the figures in the pre-contract information are likely to have been reflected in 
the credit agreement itself. And those figures did show the total amount payable (including 
interest) for the PPI as well as for a £99.99 warranty Mr T bought at the same time. The 
individual costs of those items were also set out elsewhere in the pre-contract information. 
Ref: DRN5394405
3
However, those figures were only a small selection of the many figures in this document. 
They were also only part of a large amount of overall information Mr T would have had to 
take in and decipher. I’m not persuaded Mr T would have known that he should work out the 
PPI interest himself, based on the information in the pre-contract information. 
I also don’t think that relying on Mr T to do these calculations himself, whilst in a shop 
arranging finance to buy goods, could reasonably be said to be drawing this information to 
his attention in a clear and prominent way. And the calculation would have been made all the 
more difficult because Mr T would also have had to allow for the effect of the warranty and 
the interest charged on it. 
The credit agreement was the main finance document and Mr T could reasonably expect it 
to contain the important financial information he needed to know. If the credit agreement did 
reflect what was shown in the pre-contract information, it wouldn’t have given the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. 
Creation says Mr T would have known about the interest on the PPI premium from the 
statement of price. This was on page two of a document titled “Open + Direct CreditCover 
Life, Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance Policy 
Summary”. Nothing in the title of this document suggests it would contain important 
information about the cost of the policy. And it doesn’t make Mr T aware that he should look 
at the second page to find out the interest being charged on his PPI premium. That wasn’t a 
prominent location. I don’t think Mr T would have expected to find that information in that 
location. Yet it was the only document which showed the PPI interest as a separate figure. 
The policy summary also didn’t require Mr T to sign to show he had read or received it. 
So I can’t be sure Mr T even saw it, or that it was clearly brought to his attention at the point 
of sale. Mr T’s recollections of the sale suggest not. Even if he did see it, I’m not persuaded 
Mr T would have realised that it contained important information about the cost of the policy 
over and above what he would reasonably have expected to find in the credit agreement. 
Given that he didn’t have to sign the policy summary, I also don’t find it likely that Mr T would 
have given it the same level of attention he might have given to the credit agreement – which 
he would have had to sign. 
I also note that none of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy. Had they done 
so, this might have better helped Mr T understand the cost of the PPI relative to what he was 
spending on the goods he was buying. As a matter of good industry practice this is 
information I might reasonably expect to see in relation to this type of policy. 
It was Creation’s responsibility to give Mr T enough information about the main features and 
benefits of the policy to enable him to make an informed choice. For the reasons given 
above I find that Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it sold this policy to Mr T, as 
it didn’t make him properly aware of its cost. 
Had Mr T been given clearer information – and in the context that he was borrowing a fairly 
small sum where his monthly payments without the policy would have been very modest – 
I think Mr T would be unlikely to have seen the policy as offering any real value to him. I find 
that he wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing. And so I uphold the 
complaint on this basis. 
Ref: DRN5394405
4
other failings
Whilst I have already upheld this complaint for the reasons set out above, for the sake of 
completeness I will also briefly set out the further concerns I have about this sale. 
no credit agreement 
Creation says Mr T would have ticked a box and signed a separate section of the credit 
agreement to say he wanted to take out the policy. I accept that is possible. But for the 
reasons I’ve already explained above, I wouldn’t be satisfied that Mr T had opted to buy the 
policy in an informed way. 
And the reality is that Creation can’t show, in this particular case, that Mr T did tick and sign. 
So it can’t show that Mr T did agree to buy the policy. This is a significant failing and would 
be another reason to uphold this particular complaint.
the deferred interest
I also have concerns that this appears to be a loan with a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ 
period. During this period Mr T would qualify for life cover under the policy. And if he repaid 
the finance before the end date he wouldn’t pay any interest on his loan, or anything for the 
PPI. But, if he didn’t repay during this deferred period, interest would be calculated from the 
date of the agreement. The whole balance outstanding (which included the PPI premium) 
would be accruing interest at 32.4% for the whole of the deferred period. 
If Mr T didn’t repay within the deferred period he would have paid a substantial additional 
amount in interest on the single premium PPI policy in the first year; when the only benefit 
gained was ‘free’ life cover. I have taken into consideration that the pre-contract information 
(and therefore probably also the credit agreement) did set out how interest would be 
calculated. However, it was in a paragraph of closely spaced text and not easy for Mr T to 
find. 
I’m not satisfied that this information would have been enough to make Mr T aware of the 
implications of how the deferred period could affect the interest payable on the PPI premium. 
This only serves to compound the cost disclosure failing I have already set out above. 
fair redress
I find that, if Mr T hadn’t bought the PPI policy, he would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
Therefore he should be put back in the position he would have been in if the PPI policy 
hadn’t been sold. The loan and the PPI appear to have had a five-year term (including the 
deferred period) so should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr T because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr T had taken out 
the loan without PPI;
Ref: DRN5394405
5

subtracting those amounts from what Mr T actually paid and paying him the 
difference; and

paying Mr T interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate 
of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is 
paid†.
B. Write to Mr T to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mr T needs to take any further action will depend on his 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mr T should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if he is unsure of the approach it 
has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mr T compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above under 
‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5394405
