K821x#15
complaint
Miss M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (the business) is charging her an 
excessive amount to settle her account. She complains she was not given information about 
the outstanding amount until January 2016.
background
Miss M says that she took out a loan agreement with the business in 2011 to acquire a car. 
In 2014, she took out a new finance agreement to acquire a different car and says that her 
previous loan agreement with the business should have been settled as part of this 
transaction.
Miss M says that a settlement amount was provided for up to 2 March 2014 and the money 
was transferred to the business. However, due to a delay in the settlement taking place, 
there was an outstanding balance on the account of £81.98. Miss M says she chased the 
business and new finance provider about this.
Miss M says that she then heard nothing until January 2016 when she received a letter 
saying she had arrears of £109.22. She says she contacted the business and raised a 
complaint. She says she then received a letter saying her settlement figure was over £900.
Miss M says that the business accepted that it did not contact her between March 2014 and 
January 2016 and offered to reduce the outstanding amount to £469.99. Miss M says that 
she is not trying to avoid paying the £81.98 she owed but that the amount now being asked 
for is not fair.
The business says that an early settlement figure was provided for Miss M’s account in 
February 2014. It says this amount needed to be paid by 2 March. However, while the 
payment was made this was not until 5 March meaning the payment did not settle Miss M’s 
account. It says that Miss M was notified of the outstanding balance of £81.98 in March 
2014.
The business says that the March payment placed the account into credit and no missed 
payments were reported while it was in credit. It says that Miss M’s account was transferred 
to its customer support team in January 2016 and that letters were sent out at that point. It 
says that the account has never been settled and Miss M is responsible for the remaining 
balance.
The business says it has no evidence of letters being sent out between March 2014 and 
January 2016. Because of this it offered to reduce the outstanding balance to £469.99.
The adjudicator said that Miss M had intended for her account to be settled in March 2014 
but that due to an administrative error by her new finance company this did not happen. She 
said that the business had not been able to confirm that any correspondence was sent to 
Miss M between March 2014 and January 2016. She said that if it had been sent, she 
considered Miss M would have paid the balance.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss M be allowed to pay the £81.98 plus the arrears of 
£109.22, totalling £191.20 to settle the account. She said that any adverse information on 
Miss M’s credit file relating to this should be removed.
Ref: DRN5276325
2
The business said that the letters sent out referring to £109 were relating to the arrears on 
the account not the outstanding balance. It said that the information recorded on Miss M’s 
credit file showed her account as being three months in arrears which was accurate. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided that Miss M requested a settlement figure in 
February 2014 and that this was provided and paid. It is clear that Miss M’s intentions at that 
time were for her account to be settled.
However because the new finance provider did not make the payment before the cut off date 
for the settlement amount this left an outstanding balance. While I can see this issue was not 
due to a fault of Miss M’s, I also can see that she was made aware of the outstanding 
balance at that time.
Miss M has said that due to personal reasons she did not deal with this at the time. She then 
did not hear anything regarding her account until January 2016, when she was sent an 
arrears letter. 
The business has said that because Miss M’s account was in credit, letters were not sent 
and that it was only once her account fell into arrears that it contacted her. I do not find this 
reasonable as given that more than a year passed with Miss M receiving no information, she 
should have at least received an annual loan statement. I find it reasonable to accept that 
had Miss M been aware of the ongoing status of her account she would have addressed this 
at that time.
Given less than £90 was outstanding in March 2014, I can see why Miss M is upset to now 
be required to pay even the reduced balance of over £469.99.
I accept that Miss M was provided information about the required payment in March 2014 
and that this was not made. I find that Miss M should be required to pay this amount. 
However, given the lack of information provided to Miss M I do not find it fair that she is 
expected to repay the outstanding balance. I appreciate that the business has offered to 
reduce this to £469.99 but I still consider this too high.
I find on balance that Miss M should only pay the amount she was originally made aware of, 
that is the missing balance payment of £81.98, plus interest. Interest on this amount should 
be paid from the due date until the settlement date. I do not have the interest calculation but 
recommend an amount of £40 to cover this.
Miss M and the business have both been made aware of my view in regard to the payment 
due from Miss M.
 
Given the individual circumstances of this case, I also find it reasonable that any adverse 
information is removed from Miss M’s credit report.
Ref: DRN5276325
3
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should reduce the amount owing on 
Miss M’s account to £81.98 plus £40 to cover the interest up to the settlement date. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should also remove any adverse information relating to this account 
from Miss M’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2016.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5276325
