K821x#15
complaint
Mrs M complains that her application for credit was declined by Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited and that it wouldn’t give her a specific reason why it was declined.
background 
Mrs M applied to Creation Consumer Finance for credit in a store to buy a television. Her 
application was declined so she contacted Creation Consumer Finance and asked it to 
explain why her application had been declined. She wasn’t satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs M 
had suffered some level of distress and inconvenience as a result of Creation Consumer 
Finance refusing her credit application and not telling her the specific reasons why. So she 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should pay her £200 compensation.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that it makes decisions about credit applications based on various 
criteria, taking into account a number of factors that are both commercially and security 
sensitive. And it says that Mrs M’s application was declined when it took into account the 
relevant criteria. So it says that it’s its decision whether to provide finance to a potential 
customer and that it’s done nothing wrong – so no compensation is justified in these 
circumstances.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs M and to Creation Consumer Finance on 10 August 2018. In my provisional decision I 
said as follows:
“It’s a commercial decision for a lender as to whether or not it lends money to a 
customer – and there’s no requirement for it explain the reasons for its decision to 
the customer. Creation Consumer Finance has provided me with confidential 
information to show the reasons it had for declining Mrs M’s application. And I’m 
persuaded that it acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances when it declined 
Mrs M’s application for credit. So I see no reason to interfere with Creation Consumer 
Finance’s commercial decision in these circumstances. 
Banks and other financial institutions have a legitimate interest in making sure they’re 
able to properly identify who’s applying to them for credit. And they have developed 
systems to try to identify fraudulent activity. But those systems sometimes also 
identify legitimate applications as potentially fraudulent. Mrs M’s application for credit 
may well have been legitimate and it will have been embarrassing and frustrating for 
her to have had her application for credit declined. And I appreciate how frustrating it 
must be for Mrs M to get no clear answer as to why her application was rejected. But 
I’m not persuaded that Creation Consumer Finance has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances. So I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require it to 
pay any compensation to Mrs M – or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint”.
Ref: DRN5724565
2
Subject to any further representations by Mrs M or Creation Consumer Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasn’t minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs M has responded to my provisional decision and says that she should be told why she 
was denied her credit and she thinks that someone might be using her details fraudulently 
which could affect her ability to obtain credit elsewhere.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’m not persuaded that 
I should change my provisional decision. 
There’s no requirement for Creation Consumer Finance to explain the reasons for its 
decision to decline Mrs M’s application for credit. But it’s provided me with confidential 
information to show the reasons that it declined her application. I’ve seen no evidence to 
show that Mrs M’s details are being used fraudulently by a third party and I’m persuaded that 
Creation Consumer Finance acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
I don’t consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to provide any further 
information about its decision to Mrs M – or to take any other action in response to her 
complaint.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I don’t uphold Mrs M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2018.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5724565
