K820x#14
Complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1975 in respect of faulty building works.
Background
In the summer of 2010 Mr C had his house rendered by a company I will call T. It was 
funded by a fixed sum loan. The work carried a 10 year guarantee and Mr C says that he 
was told that he when he had any windows replaced the company would stitch them in to the 
render. He tried to contact T and says he was told by the owner’s granddaughter that it had 
ceased trading.
He contacted Creation and it said that as it wasn’t present at the sale it couldn’t say what 
had been said, but it noted the guarantee made no reference to fixing the render after the 
fitting of new windows. It also said it believed the company was still trading.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didn’t recommend it be upheld. She noted the guarantee stated: 
“If the Texture Coating applied to your property should suffer any defect within a period of 10 
years from the date of application then we will repair or renew without charge.
The guarantee does not cover damage resulting from subsidence, major building movement; 
structural defects or mechanical or external physical causes.
The guarantee is transferable to any new owner or owners of the above mentioned property 
within the 10 year period. Notice of transfer of this guarantee must be given in writing within 
one month of completion of sale”.
She couldn’t see that T had agreed to stitch the render into any replacement windows. She 
also said that Company House records showed the company was still trading. And she didn’t 
think Creation had been wrong to reject his claim.
Mr C didn’t agree and he identified the director of T as someone who had been a director of 
another company which had been found guilty of scamming elderly pensioners. He also 
submitted a photograph of his bay window showing it was in a poor condition. Our 
investigator considered if the photograph showed any inherent defect with the render. But 
concluded that any defect was in all probability due to wear and tear.
Mr C asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman. He also carried out further 
research which he believes shows that T was struck off on 30 October 2012.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
Ref: DRN5292582
2
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is a debtor-creditor-supplier link and so the issue left for me to decide is 
whether there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I am satisfied that T has ceased 
to trade and the directors would appear to be less than savoury characters. However, that 
doesn’t mean that Creation can be held responsible for any verbal offers made to Mr C.
If the guarantee included a reference to stitching in new windows that I believe Creation 
would be responsible, but it doesn’t. I cannot ask Creation to fund the cost of further 
rendering work based on the recollection of Mr C of an offer made by T. I must make it clear 
that I don’t doubt Mr C’s recollection of events, but without corroborating evidence I am 
unable to direct Creation to cover the cost.
Nor can I say that the work was faulty and so there are no grounds that would trigger the 
guarantee. I appreciate the efforts Mr C has gone to tracing the company and its directors 
and by all accounts they are less than trustworthy, but that doesn’t mean I can uphold his 
complaint. I have every sympathy with Mr C and much as I would like to uphold his 
complaint I am unable to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN5292582
