K821x#12
complaint
This complaint concerns a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, taken 
out in conjunction with a loan during a telephone call in 2008. The policy covered Mrs Y if 
she suffered an accident, sickness, unemployment or in the unfortunate event of her death. 
Mrs Y says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold the policy.
background
The adjudicator upheld the complaint because he did not feel that Creation made the 
cancellation terms clear enough to Mrs Y.
Creation does not agree with the adjudicator’s assessment and has asked for an 
ombudsman to determine the matter.
my findings
I have only included a summary of the complaint above, but I have considered all the 
available evidence and arguments from the outset in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I have also taken into account any relevant regulatory rules as well as the law and good 
industry practice at the time the policy was sold.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website.
The overarching questions I need to consider, therefore, are whether in giving any advice or 
recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to ensure the product it recommended was 
suitable for Mrs Y’s needs and, whether Creation gave Mrs Y information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she could make an informed 
choice about the insurance she was taking out.
If there were shortcomings in the way the policy was sold, then I need to consider whether 
they affected Mrs Y’s position and whether she would have acted differently if there had not 
been any shortcomings.
In this case, I am satisfied that Creation did not advise Mrs Y to take out the policy. As a 
result, it did not have to ensure the policy was suitable for her.
Disappointingly, Creation has been unable to provide a call recording of the sale, so I cannot 
know for sure what was said. However, it has provided a copy of the script it used for the 
sale of the PPI.
Mrs Y has complained that she thought she had to take out the PPI in order to get the loan. 
I have reviewed the sales script, but of course I cannot know for certain what was, or was 
not discussed at the point of sale. I accept that it is possible Mrs Y was told she had to have 
the PPI, or that perhaps the optional nature was not made sufficiently clear to her by the 
advisor, however, the documentation from the sale would seem to suggest that Mrs Y was 
aware the PPI was optional. I say this because the credit agreement Mrs Y signed, 
contained a separate section stating ‘I wish to purchase … Payment Protection Insurance,.’ 
It appears that Mrs Y indicated her acceptance of the PPI by both ticking and signing 
separately from the main loan agreement, in turn choosing to purchase the PPI. In addition, 
Ref: DRN5197622
2
in the sales script I have been provided with, the call handler is supposed to inform the 
consumer that they are discussing an ‘option’. So, whilst I have considered Mrs Y’s 
submissions carefully, I have not seen anything that says or implies that PPI was 
compulsory, or that this section had to be signed, so I cannot safely conclude that she was 
told she had to take out the policy. However, I need make no finding as to whether or not 
Mrs Y was told she had to take out the PPI, because I do not think she was informed fairly to 
make a proper decision, and so, for the reasons set out below, I uphold this complaint.
Mrs Y says that half the loan was to purchase a car, and the other half was to consolidate 
outstanding debts. It seems to me that there was a real possibility that Mrs Y might have 
considered reviewing her financing again at some point during the term of the loan 
(seven years) given she had demonstrated a propensity to refinance. In this case, I am 
persuaded that the flexibility to reorganise her finances would have been an important 
consideration for her.
Upon early redemption of the loan (or cancellation of the policy), Mrs Y would not have been 
entitled to a pro-rata refund of the insurance premium and so I consider this to be a 
significant feature of the policy. I am not satisfied that the cancellation terms of the policy 
were sufficiently explained to Mrs Y over the telephone, at the time of the sale. Whilst 
I cannot know for sure what was said over the phone, the sales script does not seem to 
suggest the detail of the restrictive cancellation terms would have been discussed with Mrs Y 
at the most crucial time, that is, when she was deciding on whether or not to take out the 
cover. Upon reviewing the script, it seems to me that Mrs Y might only have been told that 
‘…for full details on cancellation rights, making a claim or complaint please refer to your 
policy terms and conditions’. I am not satisfied that this wording gives any indication that 
there might only be a limited rebate of the premium available, and I consider this statement 
to have been misleading for Mrs Y. I say this because there is a risk Mrs Y would have 
thought that she could have cancelled the policy throughout the duration of the loan without 
significant financial penalty. In my view, had Mrs Y been informed, over the telephone, that 
she would have received much less than a pro-rata refund of the insurance premium upon 
cancellation, she would have more likely than not decided not to take out the cover.
Whilst I note that the call handler would have directed Mrs Y to the policy terms and 
conditions, I am not satisfied the cancellation terms would have been sufficiently brought to 
Mrs Y’s attention. I say this because the refund examples are about two thirds of the way 
through the policy summary, which in my view is a closely worded document, and in any 
case, Mrs Y would not have had access to this documentation at the time the decision to 
take out the policy was made (over the telephone). I am not persuaded that it was 
reasonable for Creation to rely on the documentation it sent Mrs Y after the telephone call, to 
inform her of the financial disadvantage she would be faced with upon early cancellation of 
the policy.
Overall, I conclude that Creation failed to inform Mrs Y properly. It did not pay sufficient 
regard to her interests or treat her fairly. I have also concluded that Mrs Y has been 
disadvantaged as a result of Creation’s failings in this case, because I find it unlikely she 
would have gone ahead with the policy if she had been properly informed.
I have read and carefully considered all of Creation’s submissions, but these have not 
altered my decision. I acknowledge that the sale was non-advised, but this does not alleviate 
Creation of its responsibilities of highlighting the significant features of the policy to Mrs Y.
It follows that I uphold this complaint and I make an award against Creation.
Ref: DRN5197622
3
fair compensation
From the evidence I have seen in this case, it seems to me most likely that if Mrs Y had not 
purchased the PPI policy, she would still have proceeded with the loan. It is my 
understanding that the loan and the PPI are still running, and so I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following.
If Mrs Y agrees to Creation cancelling the PPI policy Creation should:
A. Restructure the loan (without charge to Mrs Y) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed, and

the number and amounts of any future loan repayments (including any interest 
and charges) are the same as they would have been if Mrs Y had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
B. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs Y because PPI was added 
to her loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs Y had taken out 
the loan without PPI.

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs Y actually paid and paying her the 
difference. 

paying Mrs Y interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid.†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mrs Y when the policy is 
cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
C. Write to Mrs Y to set out what she still owes and how much she will pay and when as a 
result of (A). This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under (B).
If Mrs Y wants to use any money she receives to reduce the loan, Creation should allow this. 
But it cannot require Mrs Y to reduce the loan to less than it would be now had she not 
bought the PPI policy. 
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs Y needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs Y should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I determine this complaint in favour of Mrs Y.
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs Y fair compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress I set out above.
I make no further award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5197622
