K821x#14
complaint
Mrs M complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd sold her in 2009 over the telephone. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They didn’t think Creation had made Mrs M aware she 
had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And they didn’t think it made the policy cost 
clear.
Creation disagreed. It said Mrs M had an opportunity to read the policy documents and 
decide if she wanted the insurance and that the cost of the policy was on the credit 
agreement.
my findings
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints. 
Creation hasn’t been able to provide a recording of the sales call. But it has provided a script 
it says would have been followed. I’m not satisfied that Creation made Mrs M aware the 
policy was optional – and that she could choose to buy it, or not – because: 

The script is short. It does prompt the sales representative to say that they are going to 
give some information about optional payment protection insurance. But it didn’t require 
the representative to clearly explain that the policy was optional, or get Mrs M’s explicit 
consent to add it to her loan. 

I don’t think the brief mention of cancellation rights in the script was enough to make Mrs 
M aware she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. 

The script asks the consumer if they would like to have documentation, including the 
insurance sent to them. I don’t think this makes it clear that the insurance was separate 
to the loan. And it is likely a consumer would say yes because they wanted their loan 
documentation.

Although the credit agreement does allow for Mrs M to select the insurance, the policy is 
not described as optional. And this would have been sent out after the initial phone call, 
when the insurance was sold to her.

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mrs M over the phone. I think Mrs M would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on anything she received in writing 
afterwards. So Creation should have made the optional nature of the policy clear to Mrs 
M during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.   
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Mrs M that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental 
failing on Creation’s part and I uphold Mrs M’s complaint for this reason. 
Given the above, I don’t need to go on to look at any further aspects of the way the policy 
Ref: DRN5812436
2
was sold. However, for clarity, I will add that I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also 
didn’t properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mrs M. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs M’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs M should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. 
Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she  paid more than she  should’ve each month. So Mrs M needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs M the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs M paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on†.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2015.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5812436
