K820x#14
complaint
Ms G complains windows and doors bought on a fixed sum loan agreement supplied by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were misrepresented and not fit for purpose. She wants the 
cost of making adjustments to be paid for by Creation.
background
Ms G tells us in 2017 she ordered replacement windows and doors from E, a limited 
company. This was financed by Creation through a fixed sum loan agreement.
She says the design of the bi-fold doors is different and they are 11cm shorter than a 
standard door size and there is a significant step down to access the outside area. As she is 
arthritic and the relative with whom she occupies the property uses a wheel chair she says 
the design is not fit for purpose. She says it wasn’t explained to her that the door height 
would include the beam, the frame and the door.
Creation told us the doors had been made to the agreed measurements. It added E’s 
brochure had contained photos of bi-fold doors which clearly showed there was a threshold 
between the floor and the frame. So it wasn’t going to uphold the complaint.
Ms G didn’t accept this and complained to us.
The investigator didn’t recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepted that Ms G 
and another family member suffered from some physical incapacity. But she’d not seen 
evidence this had been raised with E - nor that any special measures had been discussed. 
And she said there’d been several opportunities to discuss measurements. She didn’t think 
Creation had acted unfairly so wouldn’t be upholding the complaint.
Ms G wasn’t satisfied and asked for an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms G is very unhappy about what’s happened and I accept it’s been a distressing 
situation. I’m sorry she’s had to go through this experience. And I know she’s concerned 
about whether my decision will be independent of the view of the investigator.
I can only try to address her concerns by saying our processes are designed to provide both 
parties with every opportunity to put their case. And the final decision takes into account the 
evidence and representations provided by the parties as well as the view of the investigator. 
But the decision itself is entirely that of the ombudsman - irrespective of whether it coincides 
with that of the investigator or not.
As Ms G has raised these concerns I’ll also explain in detail how I reach my decision. Whilst 
I’ve read the whole file if I don’t comment upon something it’s not because I’ve not taken it 
on board. It’s because I don’t think it’s necessary to refer to it in detail in order to reach what 
I think is the correct decision. 
Ref: DRN5424310
2
In this case I see there are issues of fact in dispute - and where this is the case I have to 
decide what probably happened. This isn’t saying one party is definitely right and the other 
wrong - it’s just what I think most probably happened. And I’m aware Ms G has mentioned 
the possibility of legal action. I don’t apply the law - only a court can do that - but I do take it 
into account when reaching what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Under present legislation and subject to certain conditions, Creation would be equally liable 
if there had been a misrepresentation by E - or a breach of contract - as to the nature of 
goods supplied and/or their fitness for purpose. So if I thought there’d been a 
misrepresentation or the items weren’t fit for purpose I’d expect Creation to put matters right.
Ms G alleges misrepresentation - not so much what was said as what was omitted. A 
misrepresentation can occur if material information which a reasonable person would require 
to make an informed decision isn’t provided. But on the evidence I’ve seen I can’t say that’s 
happened. I accept the designs and fitting requirements for windows can be complex and 
not easily understood by the non-expert. But the thrust of Ms G’s complaint appears to be 
the size of the doors together with the step weren’t brought to her attention.
From what I’ve seen Ms G ordered these items on the basis of what she’d seen in a 
brochure. I can’t be sure of whether Ms G looked through the entire range of products in the 
brochure - but I’ve done so. And I can see there’s reference to bi-fold doors on pages 52 and 
53. The images in the photos clearly show there’s a step. 
Ms G has suggested the survey by E wasn’t carried out with reasonable care and skill as her 
individual needs weren’t discussed. But I don’t agree. As I understand it Ms G’s builder and 
the surveyor were both present during the survey. It appears there’s a dispute as to what 
point measurements were advised to be taken from. Ms G has said her builder didn’t 
consider it had the responsibility of guiding industry experts on this. But it seems to me it’s a 
fairly basic requirement for a builder to understand the nature and design of a product for 
which he is being asked to provide an aperture - and to ask if he’s in any doubt.
It’s also up to a customer to raise issues which may affect them as an individual. It would be 
unfair to expect a surveyor to cover every possible individual requirement. And I don’t think it 
requires any specialist knowledge to clarify if a product is suitable or can be adapted for 
those with a physical impairment.
The agreement signed made it clear this was a bespoke product and any adjustments would 
be at the customers’ expense. I can see there were discussions between Ms G’s builder, 
and the surveyor. I can’t say what was said - but it seems probable any misunderstanding 
may have occurred in these discussions. And in signing the agreement I think it’s a 
reasonable inference Ms G wouldn’t have signed if her builder had pointed out any 
problems. And when initially making her complaint Ms G told us she accepted her builder 
had made the hole in the wall too large. 
In summary, I don’t think on the evidence I’ve seen it would be fair and reasonable to find 
there’d been any misrepresentation or the items weren’t fit for purpose. So I couldn’t say 
Creation has done anything wrong.
Whilst I know it will be a disappointment to Ms G - I agree with the investigator and for much 
the same reasons this complaint should not be upheld.
Ref: DRN5424310
3
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2018.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5424310
