K821x#15
complaint
Mrs H has complained Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t sort out the problems she and 
her husband have had with a thermodynamic box fitted to heat their water which has never 
worked properly.
background
Mr and Mrs H were approached by a company, E, offering to fit a water heating system to 
provide domestic hot water. The system would run alongside their existing central heating 
and boiler but would involve an additional box being fitted along with an external 
thermodynamic panel. They agreed to have the system fitted but raised concerns very 
quickly following the fitting.
Mrs H’s credit agreement with Creation meant she could pay £4,950 and £75 within 12 
months to clear what was owed. Or she could make monthly credit payments, paying the 
original supply cost plus interest. Within a short time of getting the credit agreement, Mrs H 
cancelled the direct debit she’d originally signed. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to E a few times over the next months. Firstly they found the 
system wasn’t providing as much hot water as they needed over the Christmas period. E 
carried out some repairs by cleaning the filter. Mr and Mrs H were also concerned about the 
noise the system was making and there was never enough hot water. E offered to add 
another electric switch to their airing cupboard. Mrs H currently had to switch off the new 
system whenever they had to use their immersion. As part of the installation E had 
disconnected the heating system from the hot water system. This meant Mr and Mrs H could 
only back up their hot water by using the immersion.
As problems continued, Mr and Mrs H complained to Creation. They felt E had offered to 
carry out repairs so didn’t feel they should do anything further. A new pump was required but 
E felt this had been caused by Mrs H switching the system on and off. By this stage Mr and 
Mrs H were past the point of getting further work done as they didn’t trust the system. They 
felt they’d never wanted to keep it and brought their complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator reviewed the evidence. This included getting Mrs H to get an independent 
report done into the problems they were having. This confirmed the system wasn’t working 
at all but didn’t determine what the fault was. As there had been faults since the system was 
fitted, our adjudicator felt it was fair to ask Creation to put things right. This included:

getting the hot water system removed;

re-connecting the hot water to the central heating;

cancelling the credit agreement and repaying what Mrs H had already paid;

refunding the cost of the independent report; and

paying Mrs H £450 for the inconvenience caused.
Creation didn’t think the evidence supported the fault being present from the beginning. They 
still felt E could carry out further work to sort things out.
This complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN5049791
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H got the hot water system fitted under a fixed-sum loan agreement with Creation. 
Under certain circumstances, I can ask Creation to put things right if Mrs H was given 
incorrect information that led her entering into that agreement, or if the goods turn out to be 
not fit for purpose.
The main part of Mrs H’s complaint is that the hot water system was never fit for purpose 
and needs to be removed.
I think it’s fair to say this is a complicated case. There’s no doubt the hot water system no 
longer works – the recent independent report bears this out. And Mrs H’s evidence is that it’s 
not substantially worked since last July. They’ve had to use the immersion to heat their hot 
water. E accepts this means they’ll have been paying significantly more. But E has always 
said the problems Mr and Mrs H have had were caused by how they used the system. 
They’ve said it wasn’t designed to be switched on and off again and because Mrs H was 
using their immersion to top up the hot water, this is what had caused the problems.
However I find this odd. It seems clear from E’s own evidence that Mrs H was always going 
to have to use their immersion as this is recommended to get the water sufficiently hot to 
protect against legionnaires. But I’m not sure this was ever made clear to Mr and Mrs H 
when the box and panel were first fitted in mid-October 2015. Because if it was, E should 
have noticed there was only one socket in their airing cupboard. Mrs H was always going to 
have to disconnect the box to allow her to use the immersion at all.
Based on this fact I’m not convinced Mrs H was ever given the full information about the 
system to allow her to use it properly. Nor do I believe there were steps taken to make sure 
her existing heating and hot water system were compatible for use alongside the new 
system she’d had fitted. So on balance I agree the system was never fit for purpose.
It’s worth saying I think Mrs H wasn’t sure about all this before the system was fitted,  
There’s a letter they sent on 8 October – before the system was fitted – showing they were 
unclear what the benefits of the new system would be. Supposedly they could save up to 
80% of their hot water costs but I can’t see any assessment was ever undertaken of their 
existing usage or estimate what their potential savings will be. Because of what’s happened 
– and having to use their immersion since the hot water system failed completely – I don’t 
think Mrs H has seen any savings at all.
In fact I think she’ll have been paying more than before when her hot water and central 
heating systems were linked.
I’ve already confirmed to Creation that because of this – and generally deciding the system 
wasn’t fit for purpose based on slightly different evidence to our adjudicator – I’m increasing 
the compensation I’m asking them to pay Mrs H. I believe £450 was enough for the trouble 
caused over the last 15 months. But I’ve added another £150 which I hope will compensate 
Mrs H for her additional heating costs.
I believe the evidence shows Mrs H wanted the system removed soon after she got her copy 
of the finance agreement. She certainly cancelled future direct debit payments. This may 
Ref: DRN5049791
3
have been within the 14-day period allowing her to withdraw from the agreement. I believe 
she discussed this with Creation as Creation had written to her asking her to reinstate the 
direct debit arrangement. She says they were told by Creation to let them know when they’d 
got E to remove the system. Taking into account what I know about Mrs H’s feelings at the 
time, I think she and her husband would have made it clear to E they wanted the system 
removed. What I appreciate I don’t know is why this was never sorted out then.  
I’m sure Creation will ask E to remove their system and make sure Mrs H’s central heating 
system and hot water is re-connected properly. I appreciate Mrs H isn’t keen to allow them 
back into her house but I think it’s fair they be allowed to do the work to get their own 
equipment back. Creation will remain responsible for making sure that no damage is caused 
(and if there is any to sort this out).
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my final decision is to instruct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
do the following to put things right:

remove the thermodynamic system at no cost to Mrs H and making good any 
damage;

make sure Mrs H’s central heating system is re-connected to heat their water;

cancel the fixed-sum loan agreement;

refund all money Mrs H has paid towards this agreement along with 8% interest 
added to those amounts from the date Mrs H paid them until the date of settlement; 

remove all information about this credit agreement from Mrs H’s credit record; 

reimburse the money Mrs H paid for the independent report: £180; and

give Mrs H £600 for the trouble caused and additional heating costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2017.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5049791
