K821x#12
complaint
This is a complaint about the sale of a single premium Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) 
policy sold by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) in 2008 with a loan. Mrs A 
considers that the policy was mis-sold.
background
Mrs A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He was of the opinion that 
Creation had mis-sold the policy. Creation did not agree and asked for the case to be 
passed to an ombudsman for review. The case has therefore been passed to me for review 
and a final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account any relevant 
regulatory rules together with the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was 
sold. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website.
The overarching questions I need to consider therefore are whether Creation gave Mrs A 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put her in a position where she 
could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying and, whether in giving 
any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mrs A’s needs.
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I then need to consider whether 
Mrs A would have acted differently if it had not done so.
This policy appears to have been taken out following a telephone conversation between 
Mrs A and Creation. Mrs A says that she was advised to take out the policy. 
Creation has told us that it would not have provided Mrs A with advice, only information. 
Disappointingly it has not provided a recording of the telephone sales call. It has provided a 
copy of the sales script it says would have been used at the time of the sale. But I cannot be 
certain how closely it was followed. So it appears there is some uncertainty about what 
happened.
Ultimately I do not consider it necessary to draw any firm conclusion on whether or not 
Creation provided Mrs A with advice because it is not material to the outcome of the 
complaint. I say this because even if I were to assume that rather than giving Mrs A advice, 
Creation simply provided her with information about the policy, for the reasons set out below 
I am not persuaded I can safely conclude that Mrs A was properly informed. And it seems 
most likely to me that if she had been, she would have decided against taking out the policy, 
taking into account the policy benefits cost of cover and her broader financial circumstances 
at that time. 
After careful consideration I have concluded that there were a number of shortcomings in the 
way the policy was sold. I have concerns at the way in which the cancellation terms (which 
Ref: DRN5724947
2
offered a less than pro rata rebate after being in force for 30 days) would have been 
presented to Mrs A. The sales script indicates to me that Mrs A would have been referred to 
the policy terms and conditions for full details of the cancellation rights and refund structure, 
rather than her being provided with details of the cancellation terms. 
The script prompts the adviser to mention that any refund after 30 days would be a partial 
refund. This comes towards the end of the script. The nature of this refund does not appear 
to be explained. I cannot be certain without listening to the call recording which is not 
available, as to what information would have been provided to Mrs A. 
The policy document states that after the statutory cooling off period a partial refund of the 
original premium paid is available, which is not calculated on a proportionate basis. This 
included examples of the percentage of the premium that might be refunded depending on 
when the policy was cancelled. This information is provided on page 17 of a 24 page 
document. I am not satisfied that this information adequately addressed Mrs A’s information 
needs. I do not consider that this information would have been adequately brought to her 
attention. It would have been difficult for her to work out from the percentage examples 
provided how much she might lose in real terms if she cancelled the policy early. 
In addition this document would have been issued after Creation had asked Mrs A if she 
wanted to take out the policy. The early cancellation terms were in my opinion significant, 
and Mrs A ought to have been made aware of them before she was asked to decide whether 
or not she wanted to take out the policy.
As this term could have resulted in Mrs A suffering significant financial detriment on early 
cancellation, I consider that Creation should have ensured that such a significant term was 
brought to her attention to enable her to make an informed choice. For the reasons I have 
set out, I am not satisfied it did in this case. 
Mrs A’s loan was used for debt consolidation and home improvements, so it seems likely to 
me that Mrs A would have wanted the flexibility to refinance again in the future and I note 
that this is what she went on to do in 2010. Given that she was refinancing debt, it seems 
likely to me that had she understood the restrictive cancellation terms it is highly likely that 
she would not have taken out the policy. 
It appears from the script that only the fact that the single premium amount would be added 
to the loan and that interest would be added to it, together with the total cost of the PPI and 
the monthly cost would have been disclosed during the sales call. There is no indication that 
the amount of interest on the PPI was mentioned. Nor does the loan agreement Mrs A 
signed include information about the total interest on the policy or provide any information 
about its monthly cost. This suggests to me that in this particular case there is some doubt 
as to whether or not the monthly cost of the policy was in fact provided during the telephone 
sale. If this information about the cost of the policy had been provided, I consider it quite 
likely that it would have had a material bearing on Mrs A’s decision to take out the policy, 
particularly in the context of whether or not she considered it provided value for money.
It seems likely to me that Mrs A agreed to take the PPI as a consequence of the information 
given to her by Creation on the telephone. For the reasons set out above it seems most 
likely to me that Creation did not meet her information needs. As Creation ought to be 
aware, in accordance with standards of good industry practice, sending documentation is not 
sufficient to rectify earlier misleading or inadequate oral disclosure.
Ref: DRN5724947
3
I have carefully considered all of the submissions made by Creation. These do not alter my 
findings and conclusion that it did not inform Mrs A properly, pay sufficient regard to her 
interests or treat her fairly. It follows that I uphold Mrs A’s complaint and make an award 
against Creation.
Fair compensation
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should place Mrs A back in the position she would have 
been in had the PPI policy not been sold. It is my understanding that the loan account has 
been refinanced and the PPI was cancelled early. To that end I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:
A. Work out and repay the extra payment paid by Mrs A to settle the loan because PPI was 
added to it at the start by:

calculating the amount Mrs A would have paid to settle the loan if she had taken 
it out without PPI (including any interest and charges, such as a penalty for early 
repayment).

subtracting that amount from what was actually needed to settle the loan and 
paying her the difference.

adding interest (simple, not compound) on the difference between the two 
amounts, at the rate of 8% a year from the date the loan was settled to the date 
the redress is paid.†
(B) 
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs A while the loan and 
PPI policy were active by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs A had taken 
out the loan without PPI.

subtracting those payments from the amount Mrs A actually paid and paying her 
the difference.

paying Mrs A interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid.†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mrs A when the policy was 
cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
(C) 
Write to Mrs A to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A) and 
(B).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs A needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mrs A should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Ref: DRN5724947
4
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is to determine this complaint in favour of Mrs A. 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs A fair compensation in accordance with 
the calculation of redress I set out above. I make no further award against
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5724947
