K821x#14
complaint
Mrs L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to her. 
background
In 2005 Mrs L took out a loan to pay for furniture. At the same time Creation sold her a PPI 
policy. This was added to the loan and repaid over the loan term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs L’s complaint, because she didn’t think Creation had made clear 
how much the policy would cost. Creation disagreed. It said the paperwork it gave Mrs L 
when she bought the policy was clear enough to have made her aware of the cost.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs L’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mrs L how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs L to work it out 
for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it seems to have been on page two of 
a document setting out information about the policy. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs 
L would expect it to be. I can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when 
she was in a shop and her attention was on buying furniture – not on buying insurance. 
Mrs L  says (and I accept) that the policy was not explained to her. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mrs L better understand what it was costing her. 

I don’t think Mrs L would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her, compared to the modest amount she was borrowing.
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs L’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs L should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term. 
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs L because PPI was added 
Ref: DRN5616741
2
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs L had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs L actually paid, and paying her the difference; 
and

paying Mrs L simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mrs L setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs L needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs L should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mrs L 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs L’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5616741
