K821x#15
complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) about its 
response to a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In 2014 Mr and Mrs C were sold a solar panel system by a supplier called i-Power.  They 
were told that with the savings on their electricity bills and feed-in tariff (“FiT”) payments 
they’d receive, they’d only need to pay around £10 per month to cover the loan for the 
system.
The system hasn’t generated the expected savings and covered the loan costs as they had 
been led to believe.
As Mr and Mrs C paid for the solar panel system using a loan from Creation, they made a 
claim under s.75 as it is responsible for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract to 
the same extent as the supplier. Mr and Mrs C also said when the panels were installed in 
2014 they were damaged and had to be removed and repaired before being reinstalled.  
Initially, Creation didn’t uphold Mr and Mrs C’s claim that the system had been mis-sold.  It 
said the savings had been illustrative and weren’t guaranteed – and that was set out in the 
contractual documents Mr and Mrs C had signed. It did accept there had been damage but 
that was being covered by an Insurance Backed Guarantee (“IBG”).
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with Creation’s response and referred their complaint to this 
Service.  They explained that although the damage was covered under the IBG, the 
insurance company had defaulted, and only 90% of the cost was covered by the FSCS.  
This meant that Mr and Mrs C had to pay the remaining 10% before the panels were 
reinstalled some months later.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint be upheld.  
She noted that Creation had made an offer to make the solar panel system self-funding over 
the term of the loan and agreed with that in principle.  But she suggested that Creation 
amend its offer to take account of the fact the panels weren’t in use for seven months and 
reflect the all available FiT statements.
The investigator suggested several options for Mr and Mrs C to choose from as to how to put 
things right, and asked Creation to provide calculations of what that would mean in practice.  
She also recommended Creation pay £300 to Mr and Mrs C for the trouble and upset they’ve 
experienced, and for it to remove any adverse credit file entries for loan payments not made 
whilst issues were ongoing.
Creation did make an offer based upon the self-funding options the investigator provided, but 
it didn’t include all the losses Mr and Mrs C are claiming for.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a fresh review 
and to make a decision.
Ref: DRN5998638
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
There are several key issues forming part of Mr and Mrs C’s complaint which I will deal with 
in turn.  They are:

Whether the solar panel system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C – and if it was, 
how that should be put right.

Whether Creation should pay the 10% shortfall in funds received from FSCS for 
putting right the damage to the system in 2016.

Whether Creation should amend Mr and Mrs C’s credit file records.

What compensation should be paid to Mr and Mrs C for the trouble and upset they’ve 
experienced.
misrepresentation
It’s clear that the solar panel system was sold to Mr and Mrs C on the basis that it would 
essentially pay for itself through the savings on energy bills and FiT payments they would 
receive.  I understand Creation has highlighted the contractual documents Mr and Mrs C 
signed at the time of sale stating the savings were not guaranteed.  But I think it was 
reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to rely upon what they were told, and it was clearly a key 
inducement for them to purchase the system.  
So given that the system hasn’t been self-funding in the way Mr and Mrs C had been led to 
expect, I’m satisfied it was misrepresented to them.
I’m aware that Creation has provided calculations to adjust the loan to take account of what 
it considers would make the system self-funding.  These reflect the fact that Mr and Mrs C’s 
loan was in arrears as they stopped making payments in 2016.
As Mr and Mrs C had stopped making payments to the loan, the settlement calculations 
show that there is no refund due for overpayments.  I agree with this in principle, but have 
considered what I think is fair and reasonable overall.  To achieve this, the calculation should 
be on the basis of what would be required for the system to be self-funding if Mr and Mrs C 
were paying £10 per month and adjust the loan accordingly.  
I appreciate it can be complex to calculate what is required to make the system self-funding, 
particularly in circumstances such as this.  But I consider it fair and reasonable for Creation 
to take account of the period when the panels were installed but damaged, and the months 
that they were removed.  So the calculation should be based upon the available FiT 
statements.
10% shortfall for the repair and reinstallation work carried out in 2016
The panels had to be removed and repairs in 2016 at considerable expense.  The IBG had 
been in place to cover the cost of the repairs and reinstallation, and the FSCS paid 90% of 
the costs following the default of the insurer.  This meant that Mr and Mrs C had to pay the 
remaining 10% to the contractor completing the remedial works.
Ref: DRN5998638
3
Creation has agreed to refund the 10% Mr and Mrs C paid if they can provide evidence of 
when it was paid. The total cost of remedial works was £4644.00 and so the 10% 
Mr and Mrs C had to pay was £464.40.
Mr and Mrs C have said they paid that amount but are unable to provide a receipt for having 
made the payment.  The letter the IBG insurer sent to Mr and Mrs C in November 2016 
stated “you will need to pay the 10% not covered by the FSCS to the appointed contractor 
before any work is undertaken”.  The work was completed, and so on balance I’m satisfied 
Mr and Mrs C paid the 10% contribution and so Creation should refund that sum to them.
arrears and credit file entries
As I’ve explained above, Mr and Mrs C stopped paying the loan for the solar panel system 
and it fell into arrears.  They say that they continued to pay for the panels during the period 
they were removed from their roof, but stopped making payments as they weren’t getting 
any benefit.
Mr and Mrs C say they asked Creation to put the loan account on hold, and were told it 
wouldn’t affect their credit file.  But Creation has referred to call recordings in which 
Mr and Mrs C were informed that missing payments could result in detriment.  For this 
reason it has explained it doesn’t agree to amend Mr and Mrs C’s credit file.
Whilst I understand the position taken by Creation, I’ve considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances overall.  In this instance, I’ve decided it is appropriate to ask 
Creation to arrange for Mr and Mrs C’s credit file to be amended.  I’ve concluded that the 
system was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs C, and they understood the system would be 
self-funding and so effectively pay for itself.  Had this been the case, Mr and Mrs C wouldn’t 
have had to find funds to pay the monthly loan instalments.  
So Creation should amend the credit file records to reflect that the loan payments had been 
maintained in full and on time.  Because if the system had been operating as expected, the 
monthly payments would have been met – and so the amendment is necessary to put them 
back in a fair and reasonable position.
trouble and upset
The investigator, who reviewed things initially, recommended that Mr and Mrs C should be 
paid £300 for trouble and upset.  Creation disagreed and felt £100 was more appropriate.
To decide what I think is fair, I’ve considered what has happened and the impact upon 
Mr and Mrs C has been.  Having done so, I agree that £300 is an appropriate amount.  This 
is because not only have Mr and Mrs C experienced the distress of the system not operating 
as they were told, but they’ve also had to undergo periods where work had to be undertaken 
and the panels removed, and faced concerns about the possible impact of adverse credit 
records.
putting things right
I have explained above what Creation should do to put things rights and the reasons for 
those conclusions.  But in summary I consider fair compensation to be for Creation to:
Ref: DRN5998638
4

Adjust the loan to make it self-funding over its term, but taking account of the periods 
the panels were not in operation, and using the available FiT statements.

Reimburse Mr and Mrs C £464.40 representing the 10% contribution they had to pay 
towards the remedial works in 2016.  This should also include 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of the claim to the date of settlement, to account for 
Mr and Mrs C’s loss of use of those funds.

Remove any adverse credit file entries in relation to the loan.

Pay £300 to Mr and Mrs C for the trouble and upset they’ve experienced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs C’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
To put things right it should follow the steps for fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5998638
