K821x#12
complaint
In 2007, Mr D purchased electrical equipment from an appointed representative of Creation 
Consumer Finance.  He purchased the goods with a loan, alongside which he was sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
The credit agreement provided an initial period of 12 months during which no regular 
payments were required and within which Mr D was entitled to settle his debt without interest 
being added to the loan.  Mr D has indicated that it was his intention to do this.  Had he done 
so, the PPI would never have begun and he would have not been charged for it.  In the 
event, Mr D did not settle within this 12 month period, and so the loan and the PPI began in 
2008, payable over a four year period.  The PPI policy appears to cover the whole length of 
the loan.  Mr D believes the policy was mis-sold.
my findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above but in deciding what is fair and 
reasonable in all the individual circumstances of this case, I have considered the issues in 
accordance with our general approach to assessing complaints about the mis-sale of PPI, 
which is well-documented.  This includes taking into account the law and good industry 
practice at the time the policy was sold, and any regulatory rules and guidance relevant to 
the complaint. In essence, the questions I need to consider are:

whether, in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to 
ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for Mr D’s needs;

whether Creation gave Mr D information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he 
was buying.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which the business sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether the consumer is worse off as a result; that is, would he have done 
something different - i.e. not taken out the policy - if there had been no shortcomings.
Ref: DRN5472963
2
The sale took place face-to-face during the sale of electrical goods in a shop or store of 
some kind.  I am therefore unable to know for certain what was said to Mr D during the sale.  
However, I note his clear and consistent testimony that he was told he had to have the PPI 
in order to take the loan.  In that respect, Mr D is saying the business went further than 
merely recommending the policy to him.  Creation has told this Service that it did not 
recommend the policy to Mr D.  In fact, I do not intend to make a firm finding on this point 
because I believe that the complaint should be upheld in any event because of a failure to 
provide clear, fair and not misleading information to Mr D.  
In particular, the restrictive cancellation terms do not appear to have been adequately 
disclosed during the sale.  Mr D has told this Service that he intended to settle the loan 
during the initial 12-month interest-free period.  Although Mr D missed this deadline, he has 
told us that this was because he thought the 12 months started from the date his goods were 
delivered and not from the date that he signed the agreement.
He says he contacted Creation only a few days after the deadline in an attempt to settle the 
loan, but was told that, because he had already missed it, the new settlement figure was 
some 80% higher than the interest-free amount.
Mr D was unable to meet this high settlement figure and so the loan and PPI continued.  Mr 
D later contacted Creation to seek a reduced settlement figure, offering an amount some 
21% higher than the interest-free amount.  This was rejected by Creation.
Mr D’s intentions at the time of sale therefore appear to be clear – that he would settle the 
loan within the interest-free period.  He has provided plausible reasons why he did not do so, 
and his attempts to negotiate a settlement figure with Creation shortly after the deadline 
provide further evidence that he did not intend to keep the loan for the full term.  It seems to 
me that, any customer with this intention at the time of the sale, would not have chosen to 
purchase a PPI policy if he or she had known that it would provide a refund which was 
significantly less than pro-rata in the event of early cancellation.
The rebate available is significantly less than pro-rata.  For example, if cancelled after two 
years of the three year policy, Mr D would have received only 4% of his original premium, 
less than one-eighth of the pro-rata amount. 
Although I note that these cancellation terms were explained in the policy document, they 
appear on page 19 of a 25 page document.  Even then, the explanation given is not full or 
clear – no explanation is provided for how the refund would be calculated, and the only 
example given is the one I quoted above – a 4% refund after two years of the three year 
policy.  So even if Mr D had found these terms on page 19 of his policy document, they do 
not provide adequate information.
It seems more likely than not that Mr D was not made aware of the restrictive cancellation 
terms at the point of sale.  Had this been clearly pointed out to him, I conclude that it is more 
likely than not that he would have declined the policy. 
I therefore conclude that Mr D was not given clear, fair, and not misleading information about 
the cancellation terms of his policy and that it was more likely than not that he would have 
declined the policy if this failing had not occurred.  I therefore uphold Mr D’s complaint.
Ref: DRN5472963
3
fair compensation
I find it is more likely than not that Mr D would still have taken the loan, but without PPI, had 
the failings of the business not occurred.  I understand that Mr D has paid off this loan by 
refinancing with a new loan.  His new loan will therefore be higher than it would have been if 
Mr D had not purchased PPI on his Creation loan.
I require Creation to refund Mr D any overpayments he has already made and also ensure 
that he is not facing higher costs in future, as a result of taking PPI with his Creation loan.  I 
therefore require Creation to:

Restructure Mr D’s Creation account as though he had not taken PPI and compare 
the amounts he would have been repaying to the amounts he did repay, then refund 
these overpayments.

Compare actual settlement figure on his Creation loan with what it would have been, 
had PPI not been purchased.  Arrange for Mr D’s new loan to be restructured and 
reduced accordingly so that his future repayments reflect what they would have 
been, had PPI not been sold on his loan with Creation.
NOTE - For this aspect of the redress, I am mindful that Creation did not make the new loan to 
Mr D and may not, therefore, be able to adjust the new loan. If that is the case, Creation 
should work out and pay Mr D the difference between the current loan balance and what the 
loan balance would have been if PPI had not been added to it (including any interest and 
charges). Creation should reimburse Mr D any charges he incurs if he uses this amount to 
reduce the loan balance.

Compare the repayments already made on his new loan with what they would have 
been, had this loan not included the additional borrowing caused by PPI on his 
Creation loan.  Pay compensation equal to these overpayments.

Pay an additional amount equal to 8% simple interest per annum on each of these 
monthly over-payments (on both loans) from the date they were made until the date 
when compensation is paid by Creation.

Once this total figure has been calculated, the business may deduct any amount 
already paid to Mr D in respect of refunds and claims.
I make no further award against Creation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr D’s complaint against Creation and require the business to pay compensation 
according to the redress calculation set out above.
John Wightman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5472963
