K821x#15
complaint
Miss G complains that the furniture she bought financed by a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd was not delivered. 
background
Miss G entered into a loan agreement to buy furniture in December 2014. She says that she 
was told it would take six to eight weeks to be delivered. Miss G says she contacted the 
supplier on a number of occasions to try to ensure delivery took place before she went on 
holiday. She says that despite telling the business she would be on holiday from 
15 March 2015 it contacted her on 24 March about delivery. It was agreed she would contact 
it on her return to fix a delivery date.
Miss G says she called the supplier on her return and was told a delivery date of 9 April had 
been arranged. The furniture was not delivered on that day. 
Creation says that it was contacted to say Miss G’s order had been cancelled on 27 May and 
that it cancelled the loan agreement on the same day. In its letter dated 18 July, it said that it 
was its understanding that Miss G would be refunded the deposit as the furniture was not 
delivered. 
The supplier has said that it has retained the deposit in line with its terms and conditions. 
The adjudicator said that Miss G had the right to claim against Creation under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She was satisfied that there had been a breach of contract 
by the supplier as it has failed to deliver goods in a timely manner. She said that Creation 
should refund the deposit Miss G paid plus interest. 
The supplier said that the furniture arrived on 17 March and that because Miss G was on 
holiday at that time delivery was arranged for 9 April. It says delivery did not happen on 
9 April due to a major traffic incident and that when Miss G was contacted to rearrange a 
delivery time she refused. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G’s loan agreement has been cancelled and so the outstanding issue is whether the 
deposit she paid should be refunded.
When Miss G bought the furniture she was given an estimated delivery time of six to eight 
weeks. Information about delivery also said that a delay of one to four weeks was 
reasonable. Miss G has said that she had to chase the supplier as she wanted the furniture 
to arrive before she went on holiday.
The supplier says it received the furniture on 17 March and that it could not deliver at that 
time because Miss G was on holiday. However, Miss G has said that she was not contacted 
about delivery until 24 March, over 12 weeks after she bought the furniture. On balance, 
I find that the supplier had taken an unreasonable amount of time to arrange delivery of 
Miss G’s furniture.
Ref: DRN5577754
2
The furniture was then arranged to be delivered on 9 April. I understand that this did not 
happen because of a traffic incident. However, I find that Miss G had already had to wait 
longer than expected and I can see why, after delivery did not happen on 9 April, she 
decided to cancel her order.
I appreciate Miss G has said she received poor service from the supplier, but my role is to 
decide whether or not there has been a breach or misrepresentation in regard to Miss G’s 
agreement. In this case, I find that the terms of Miss G’s agreement were breached by the 
delay in delivery. Because of this I find that she should be refunded the £238 deposit she 
paid. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to refund Miss G the £238 deposit she paid plus 
interest at 8% from the date this was paid (28 December 2014) until the settlement date.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 November 2015.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5577754
