K821x#12
complaint
Mr D took out an unsecured loan through Creation Consumer Finance Ltd in June 2008 with 
the intention of undertaking home improvements. He also paid off an existing loan he had 
with Creation Consumer Finance. The loan was to be repaid over a term of seven years.                               
Mr D also purchased a payment protection insurance (“PPI”) policy, the cost of which was 
added to his loan and was to be repaid over the seven year term of that loan. The PPI policy 
provided cover for the first five years of the loan. Mr D believes that the policy was mis-sold.
background
Mr D’s complai about the mis-sale of the PPI with his loan was considered by our adjudicator 
who recommended that it be upheld. She was of the view that the costs and cancellation 
terms of the policy had not been clearly presented. She concluded that in his circumstances 
at the time, had he been given clear information on these issues then it was unlikely that Mr 
D would have purchased the policy.
Creation Consumer Finance disagreed with her conclusion and responded by directing her 
attention to the way in which the costs and cancellation details of the policy were presented 
to Mr D. It asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I base my decision on the balance of probabilities – that is, 
what I  consider is most likely to have happened given the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
I have taken into account law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold.
The questions I need to consider are:

whether Creation Consumer Finance gave Mr D information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading in order to put him in a position where he could make an 
informed choice about the insurance he was buying;

whether, in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation Consumer Finance 
took adequate steps to ensure that the product it recommended was suitable for 
Mr D’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which the business sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether Mr D is worse off as a result; that is, would he have done something 
different – for example, not taken out the policy - if there had been no shortcomings.
Mr D says that he attended the offices of Creation Consumer Finance to arrange the loan. It 
tells us that it did not have facilities for face to face meetings at its head office. I accept that 
Mr D has provided his honest recollections but I am mindful that memories can fade. On 
balance I find it more likely that the sale did take place over the telephone.
Ref: DRN5857963
2
Creation Consumer Finance is unable to provide us with a recording of the telephone 
conversation but has produced a sales script which it says would have been followed by its 
representative. I find that this script is lacking in detail and appears to provide the 
representative with a lot of discretion during the call. In the circumstances it provides some 
evidence about what might have been discussed and so I have taken it into consideration 
when deciding what is most likely to have happened. 
Mr D’s main complaint is that he was not given an option about buying the PPI and says that 
if he had been offered a choice, he would have declined the policy. 
Having taken account of Mr D’s testimony and the documentation provided, I am not 
persuaded that I can safely conclude that he was not aware that the policy was optional; it 
seems to me to be more likely than not that he agreed to take it out, having been made 
aware that it was optional for the following reasons: 

In the credit agreement signed by Mr D he has signed in two places – once for the 
credit and once for the PPI. Above his signature, in the PPI box he appears to have 
ticked the box indicating that he wanted PPI.

In the script the Creation Consumer Finance representative was directed to say                                  
“ I am pleased to inform you that you are eligible for payment protection insurance 
but before I continue with discussing this option I need to inform you of the 
following…..”. I also note the representative was directed to provide quotes for the 
loan to include PPI and without PPI.
I accept it is possible that despite what’s in the documentation, Mr D may have been told 
something that led him to believe he had to have the cover. However, I am not persuaded 
his testimony is strong enough for me to safely conclude this is more likely than not to have 
happened.
Mr D cannot remember whether he was advised to take the policy.                                                      
Creation Consumer Finance says that it did not make a recommendation or provide advice 
to Mr D and I note that the script does not suggest that an assessment was undertaken by 
the representative or a recommendation provided. 
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that Creation Consumer Finance did not give advice 
about whether Mr D should take out the policy and so was not required to take steps to 
ensure that the PPI was suitable. However it was still required to provide him with clear, fair 
and not misleading information so that he could make an informed choice about whether or 
not to take out the policy.
I am open to the possibility that there may have been a number of shortcomings on the part 
of Creation Consumer Finance in respect of the information provided to Mr D. But for the 
purposes of this decision I am satisfied that the failure to clearly inform Mr D about the 
restrictive cancellation terms of the policy is sufficient for me to uphold his complaint.
As I have mentioned above Mr D took his loan out for seven years and the policy covered 
him for the first five years. The cancellation terms provided a less than proportionate refund 
if the loan was repaid early. This can be problematic for consumers who want to refinance or 
repay the loan before the end of the scheduled policy term. The script makes reference only 
to the 30 day cancellation period immediately following completion of the loan and directs 
Ref: DRN5857963
3
the consumer to refer to the policy terms and conditions (which would have been sent out 
after the call).  
Creation Consumer Finance tells us that Mr D had taken out a similar loan for five years for 
home improvements with them in February – some four months before this loan. He 
refinanced that February loan through this new loan. 
Creation Consumer Finance makes much of the policy summary which would have been 
sent to Mr D after the telephone call with the other loan and insurance documentation.                       
I accept that this contains details about the cancellation terms and provides an example of 
the refund applicable in the event of early repayment. As Creation Consumer Finance ought 
to be aware, and in accordance with standards of good industry practice, simply sending 
documentation is not sufficient to rectify earlier misleading or inadequate oral disclosure. It 
would not have been unreasonable for Mr D to have assumed that the key information he 
needed to make a decision had been disclosed during the call. So I am not persuaded that 
the subsequent sending out of information would have been sufficient to correct the earlier 
shortcomings. 
Given this history of very recent refinancing on the part of Mr D I am persuaded that had he 
received clear information about the restrictive cancellation terms he would not have found 
the policy attractive and would have declined to take it out. 
It follows that I uphold his complaint.
redress
I understand that the loan is still running but that the PPI has now expired in which case 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited should:
(A) 
restructure the loan (without charge to Mr D) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed, and

the number and amounts of any future loan repayments (including any 
interest and charges) are the same as they would have been if Mr D had 
taken out the loan without PPI
(B) 
work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr D because 
PPI was added to his loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr D had 
taken out the loan without PPI

subtracting those amounts from what Mr D actually paid and paying him 
the difference 

paying Mr D interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at 
the rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date 
the redress is paid†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr D when the policy 
was cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
(C) 
write to Mr D to set out what he still owes and how much he will pay and 
when as a result of (A), including the details of the calculations and 
amounts under (B). 
Ref: DRN5857963
4
If Mr D wants to use any money he receives to reduce the loan, Creation 
Consumer Finance should allow this. But it cannot require Mr D to reduce the 
loan to less than it would be now had Mr D not bought the PPI policy. 
† – This part of the compensation is subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of the 
compensation in Mr D’s hands will depend on whether Creation Consumer Finance has 
deducted basic rate tax from the compensation and Mr D’s financial circumstances. More 
information about the tax position can be found on our website. Creation Consumer Finance 
and Mr D should contact HM Revenue and Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
I determine this complaint in favour of Mr D. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should pay 
him fair compensation in line with the redress I have set out above. I make no other award 
against Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
Liz Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5857963
