Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has declined to pay his claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘Act’) for some solar panels that he thinks 
were mis-sold to him.
Background
In 2015, Mr C received an unrequested approach from a supplier, M, offering to sell him 
solar panels. Mr C has said that he wouldn’t normally consider engaging with such cold-
calls, but M’s telephone sales agent made a compelling argument as to why he should agree 
to a home visit from a salesman.
Mr C and his family were at the time living in a modest sized house. Mr C has told us that 
they were considering moving in the next year or two as the home wouldn’t be large enough 
for their family for much longer. Mr C says that he told the sales agent this and discussed 
what his options would be if he were to move. He says that he was told that he could either:

take the panels with him and continue to claim the feed-in tariff (FIT) payments from 
the government solar subsidy scheme;

get the purchaser to take over his finance agreement from him; or

increase the sale price of his house to take account of any remaining balance on his 
finance.
Mr C said that the first option wouldn’t be possible as he and his wife were intending to rent 
when they moved - they were considering going to a new area nearer Mrs C’s job. But he 
was still led to believe that the subsequent options may be possible.
Mr C has told us that he was led to believe, on both the initial call and during the salesman’s 
visit to his home, that the panels would effectively not cost him anything - the FIT payment 
and electricity generated/saved would cover the cost. He says he was told that the FIT 
payment would be about 37 pence per kilowatt hour (Kwh), although it has since turned out 
that the payment was more like 13 pence.
Mr C agreed to purchase the panels from M. Creation provided the finance. That loan was 
for the full cost of the panels (nearly £6,000) plus interest over a 10-year period. And would 
cost Mr C about £76 a month. 
In May 2016, Mr C had put his property on the market. He received an offer of £95,000 for it. 
But the sale ultimately fell through. Mr C has said that this was mainly because of the solar 
panels which the purchaser didn’t want to pay anything additional for and nor could the 
finance agreement be transferred over. Mr C says that at the time M suggested that he could 
make an agreement with the purchaser to still claim the FIT payments, whilst the purchaser 
would keep the benefit of any free energy generated. But this wasn’t a practical solution, 
given the significant length of time that the finance agreement still had to run – nine more 
years.
Mr C did ultimately sell his property in 2017. But he only achieved a sale price of £92,500, 
less than what he’d agreed with the previous purchaser a year before. After sales costs and 
paying off his mortgage, Mr C and his wife ended up with no profit from the sale. And shortly 
afterwards they borrowed about £5,000 from family to pay off the loan with Creation in full. 
Ref: DRN5617576
2
They subsequently repaid their family using a personal bank loan on which they continue to 
pay interest.
In June 2016, Mr C made a claim against Creation under Section 75 of the Act. He said that 
the benefits of the solar panels had been misrepresented to him and that he would never 
have bought them had he known they wouldn’t pay for themselves and/or that he wouldn’t 
be able to recoup the cost by transferring the liability to any purchaser of his house or 
increasing the sale price to account for it. Given that the panels cost almost £6,000 and his 
house was priced at less than £100,000, the likelihood of either of those options being 
acceptable to a purchaser was minimal.
Creation didn’t accept Mr C’s claim. So, he complained to this service about that. Creation 
said that there was no evidence that any of the things that Mr C says he was told, either by 
the sales agent in person or over the phone, took place. And it provided us with copies of the 
sales scripts and the documentation that Mr C signed, including a customer satisfaction note 
explaining the estimated benefits of the panels. Mr C says that those documents were all 
pre-filled and he was just given them to sign.
Our investigator looked into Mr C’s complaint. She thought that it should be upheld. She 
recommended that Creation calculate how much Mr C had overpaid over the two years that 
he’d had the panels, assuming that they were to have been self-funding and then refund the 
balance of the loan account that Mr C had settled in 2017 to him. Creation didn’t agree. So, 
the matter has come to me for a decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr C’s complaint should be upheld. I’ll explain why.
In looking at a complaint like this, I need to look at the evidence to determine what is more 
likely than not to have happened at the time of the sale. In doing so, I need to decide if there 
was any misrepresentation by M’s staff at the time that led to Mr C entering into a contract 
which he might not otherwise have done. If I find that there was, then Creation will be equally 
responsible with M under Section 75 of the Act for any loss that Mr C has suffered.
Mr C’s recollection of the events surrounding the sale is very clear. And I think his side of the 
story is credible. Creation has provided us with several documents to rebut that evidence. 
These include the sales script that M’s telephone sales advisers would have used, and the 
customer satisfaction note signed by Mr C. Creation says this clearly sets out the estimated 
benefits that may be achieved from the panels (£433 odd a year). When that is compared 
with the cost of the finance (£76 odd a month – about £900 a year), it says it should have 
been clear to Mr C that the panels would not be self-funding. But whilst that might have been 
clear to someone who was in the market for solar panels and had knowledge of how they 
work, the benefits available and costs involved, here Mr C was wholly reliant on what M’s 
sales advisers were telling him.
The initial telephone sales script starts with a phrase that I do think could be misleading to 
an uninformed customer. It says: 
Ref: DRN5617576
3
‘It’s just a quick call from [M] to inform you of a Government incentive in your area that you 
may be eligible for Renewable Energy products fitted in your home that will help to reduce 
your bills [my emphasis]’
That phrase does indicate to me that the government scheme will save the customer money. 
The script then goes on to ask some questions, one of which is whether the person is 
moving in the next two to three years.
If the person agrees to continue speaking to the adviser, then the benefits of the panels are 
explained as well as how the FIT payments will be paid for 20 years on an index-linked 
basis. Creation have pointed out that the script says:
‘The generated income plus the money saved on your bills goes toward (my emphasis) 
paying back for the installation’
Creation says that there is no indication that the income will pay for the cost of the panels in 
full, particularly if the customer opts for a financing option – which was something that Mr C 
didn’t have to take, given he could have paid for the panels outright or taken an alternative 
form of finance. But Mr C couldn’t afford to pay for these panels in one go and so he, like 
many customers for these panels, was more likely than not to need finance.
It’s impossible for us to know exactly what was said to Mr C on that call or with the salesman 
in person. But it’s my finding that his recollection of what was said is more likely than not to 
be what happened. He thinks he was told that the panels would pay for themselves and 
that’s why he agreed to a home visit by M’s salesman. The sales script, even if it was 
followed to the letter is, I think, misleading. It indicates that customers will save on their bills. 
But that only tells half the story, as the finance costs will invariably exceed the income 
generated
So, what the script neglects to say, which I think most customers would have needed to 
know in order to make an informed decision, is that if you take the loan, you won’t be making 
any saving for a very considerable period. In fact, you will have an extra bill for the loan 
principal and interest due on the finance agreement which you will have to find additional 
money for over at least a 10-year period.
The fact that the word ‘towards’ is used, doesn’t make the nature of the panel’s costs clear to 
a potential customer. The sales script is of course intended to get M a foot in the door. And 
in Mr C’s case that worked. I can’t know whether the question about ‘if he was intending to 
move in the next two or three years’ was asked on the phone. But it was of course a very 
relevant question in his circumstances, as the panels really wouldn’t have been suitable for 
him if he’d answered yes at the time. And Mr C says he told the salesman this in person 
anyway. His family circumstances also indicate that they were likely to have been looking to 
move at the time. So, my finding is that the question probably wasn’t asked on the phone.
When M’s salesman attended Mr C’s home, Mr C tells us that pressure sales tactics were 
used. He says that he was told FIT payments were reducing all the time and that he needed 
to sign up quickly if he was to secure the 37 pence per Kwh rate. Mr C’s evidence about 
what he was told is credible. He’s explained his family’s financial position at the time and 
what their intentions were about moving to temporary rental accommodation near to where 
his wife works. 
Ref: DRN5617576
4
Their income at the time was modest and they had a mortgage to pay too. Given they were 
cold-called, I don’t think Mr and Mrs C would be likely to have taken on the responsibility for 
the solar panels, and the loan, if they’d understood fully what the cost to them would be and 
that the obligations couldn’t easily be transferred to a purchaser of the house.
So, I’ve found that Mr C more likely than not told M’s salesman of their intention to move in 
the relatively near future. I also consider that the salesman most probably did then give them 
the options that I’ve outlined above. However, given the value of their house and the cost of 
the solar panels, none of those options would really have ever been practical and the FIT 
payments couldn’t have been transferred in any event. So, I do think the benefits of 
purchasing the panels were misrepresented to Mr C. Mr C relied on the advice of M’s 
salesman and he shouldn’t have sold him the panels, given that his intention was to move 
home in the next year or two anyway. A purchase of solar panels in Mr C’s situation would 
never have been advisable.
Taking this into account, I have considered what Mr C would have done had the position not 
been misrepresented to him. And my finding is that he wouldn’t have bought the panels.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I would normally look to put Mr C back into 
the position he would have been in but for the misrepresentation having been made to him. 
That would mean that he would never have bought the panels in the first place. I must also 
take into account though that Mr C did obtain some benefit from the panels through the 
electricity generated and the FIT payments he received up until he moved home in 2017. 
Creation thinks that I should look to off-set the benefits Mr C would have got for the entire 
lifespan of the panels. But I don’t think that’s appropriate in this case. Mr C told M’s sales 
agent that he was intending to move and he’s clearly not getting any further benefit from the 
panels. So, but for M’s misrepresentation, he wouldn’t have had the panels in the first place. 
So, I don’t think it would be fair for me to factor in the ongoing benefits of a product that Mr C 
was never likely to have had for more than the couple of years that he did. 
It is relevant that Mr C went on to sell his home with the solar panels in place. So those can 
no longer be removed and returned to Creation. That said, the cost of removing the panels 
and making good the roof of the home can often be quite significant. And that is something 
that I would normally expect Creation to pay for in a case like this. 
Mr C also appears to have had to sell his property for less than he may have obtained a year 
earlier. And he incurred costs on the failed sale in 2016, at least in part as a result of the 
inability to transfer the responsibility for the loan or to increase the sale price to account for 
it. Both of these are things I’ve found M’s sales agent incorrectly advised Mr C about.
I understand that Creation’s finance was paid back using a short-term loan from Mrs C’s 
parents - which was later repaid by a commercial bank loan - which Mr and Mrs C continue 
to pay principal and interest on. These are additional losses that I might normally consider 
compensating Mr C for.
But compensation in cases like this isn’t an exact science. And what I’m looking to do here is 
put Mr C back in the position he would have been in but for the misrepresentation – whilst at 
the same time taking into account that Mr C has sold the house with the solar panels in 
place and so cannot now return them to Creation. Having weighed up all the factors 
Ref: DRN5617576
5
involved, I think the following represents fair compensation – and it’s the same as what our 
investigator recommended.
Creation should calculate what the panels would have cost Mr C had they been self-funding 
for the time that he had them – ie until he moved or until the loan was repaid, whichever was 
the earlier. Mr C will need to provide Creation with his electricity and FIT statements so that 
it can estimate this accurately. Creation should then refund to Mr C any overpayments that 
he made for the time that he had the loan together with interest at our usual rate.
Although Mr C cannot now return the panels, as these were included in the 2017 sale of his 
house, he didn’t get any financial benefit from their sale - in particular I’ve noted the drop in 
price of his house since the previously agreed sale.
So, taking everything into account, including the trouble and upset this whole situation has 
caused him (something that was exacerbated by Mr and Mrs C’s mental health conditions at 
the time), I think that fair compensation is for Creation to repay Mr C the balance of principal 
remaining on the loan account when he repaid it in 2017. However, considering that Mr C is 
now unable to return the panels to Creation, I will not be awarding interest on that sum in the 
circumstances of this complaint. The money used to pay it wasn’t Mr C’s, as he had 
borrowed it. And I’ve already factored in the cost to him of that in terms of interest when 
making my overall award, requiring the refund of the loan balance, in this case.
My final decision
It’s my final decision to uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
I require that Creation calculate the benefit that Mr C has received from the solar panels (in 
terms of electricity generated and FIT payments) until the earlier of the loan repayment and 
the time that he moved home. It must refund to him the difference between what he paid for 
the loan and what it would have cost him over the time he had it, if it were to have been self-
funding. Creation should also pay interest on the sums refunded at the rate of 8%* simple a 
year from the date the payments were made until they are refunded.
Creation must refund to Mr C the balance of principal on the loan that was outstanding at the 
time that he repaid it in 2017.
*If Creation considers that HM Revenue & Customs requires it to take tax off any interest 
that it pays to Mr C, it should, if he requests it, provide Mr C with a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off, so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2020.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5617576
