K820x#13
complaint
Mr S says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy to him. He says he wasn’t given a choice about whether to buy the policy and wasn’t 
given enough information about it. 
background
In 2008 Mr S bought a car using a loan from Creation. A month later Creation wrote offering 
him PPI – and he signed and returned an acceptance form. 
Mr S paid for the policy each month. It would make his loan payments for up to 12 months 
per claim if he was off work sick or lost his job.  
Our adjudicator didn’t uphold the complaint. She thought the paperwork Creation sent to 
Mr S made him aware he had a choice – and also told him how much the policy cost and the 
benefit it offered. Mr S disagreed. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I don’t uphold Mr S’s complaint.
Creation says it wrote to Mr S offering him PPI because he initially turned it down when he 
took the loan out. Mr S’s loan had been in place for a month before Creation wrote to him. 
And the acceptance form he signed said “I understand that this insurance is optional”.
Mr S hasn’t clearly explained what Creation did to make him think he had to buy the policy. 
And, looking at the sequence of events and the paperwork together, I don’t think it’s very 
likely that Creation led Mr S to believe he had to take the policy out. I think Mr S would have 
understood that he had a choice. And the evidence shows he chose to buy the policy. 
I don’t think Creation personally recommended the policy to Mr S. So it didn’t have to take 
steps to make sure it was right for him. Instead it had to give him enough clear information to 
decide for himself whether he wanted the policy. 
The monthly cost and the monthly benefit were set out in the acceptance form Mr S signed. It 
looks like Mr S could afford the policy. And he was eligible for the cover it provided. As it was 
a monthly policy Mr S could cancel it without paying anything else if he decided he didn’t 
want it any more. 
I’ve taken into account the sick pay and savings Mr S says he had. But I’ve also considered 
that the policy would have covered the loan payments (over £200 a month) on top of those 
existing arrangements, and for longer. So I think Mr S would have seen the policy as offering 
a potentially valuable benefit.
Ref: DRN5358769
2
The policy summary set out some information about the policy. It’s possible Creation didn’t 
do enough to draw Mr S’s attention to all the important things the policy didn’t cover. But I 
don’t think that would have made a difference to Mr S’s decision to buy it – because he 
wasn’t affected by any of those things. 
All of this means Mr S isn’t worse off as a result of anything Creation might have done wrong. 
So there’s nothing it now needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold Mr S’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2015.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5358769
