K820x#14
complaint
Mr A has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) dealt with 
a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”).
background
In late 2015 Mr A entered into an agreement with a company called Mainframe (UK) Limited 
(“Mainframe”) for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  It cost £7,650 and Mr A 
paid using a fixed sum loan arranged with Creation.
Mr A says he was told the panels to be installed were of the highest quality and that the 
financial benefits provided by the system would cover the cost of the loan – effectively 
making it free.  The benefits were due to come in the form of energy savings and receipt of 
feed-in tariff (“FIT”) payments from selling excess energy back to the grid.
Around a year after the solar panels was installed Mr A reviewed his bills and FIT 
statements, and says he realised the system wasn’t performing as he expected.
Mainframe is no longer trading and has been dissolved, so Mr A couldn’t complain to it. But 
under s.75 a finance provider can be held responsible to the same extent as the supplier of 
goods for breaches of contract and misrepresentations.  So, Mr A made a claim to Creation.
Represented by a claims management company (“CMC”) Mr A made a number of points, but 
in summary said:

The benefits of the system were misrepresented as he was told it would cover the 
cost of the loan and pay for itself.

He was pressured into making the purchase and taking the associated loan.

The solar panels are of lower quality than was described by the salesman.

No information was provided about the system warranty.
Creation didn’t uphold Mr A’s claim.  Unhappy with its response, the CMC referred Mr A’s 
complaint to this Service for review.
One of our investigators reviewed everything and recommended the complaint should not be 
upheld.  In summary she said:

Although she acknowledged Mr A’s claims, the documents from the time of sale don’t 
suggest the system would be self-funding, and explain its impossible to predict the 
performance of the system.

There is no evidence to suggest the panels where not of the standard represented by 
Mainframe.
Mr A didn’t accept the investigator’s conclusions.  He re-iterated the verbal representations 
he says were made by the sales person, and that he was told the system would be ‘free’.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a fresh review 
and decision to be made.
Ref: DRN5692941
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I’ve reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator – and I’ll explain why.
There are several issues raised by the CMC on behalf of Mr A.  I’ve reviewed and 
considered all of them, but in this decision, I’ve focussed on what I consider to be the key 
issues, which are central to the complaint.
Self-funding
Mr A alleges that Mainframe misrepresented the system and said the benefits it would 
produce would cover the cost of the system in 6-7 years – essentially making it self-funding.
As Mainframe has been dissolved and no longer exists, there is limited information available.  
The CMC has provided documentation from the time of sale including the order form, 
invoice, terms and conditions, and funding choice form.  In parts, these documents are 
illegible, but better copies are not available.
From what I’ve seen, the documentation doesn’t state that the system will be self-funding.  In 
fact, the order form specifically says:
“The performance of Solar PV systems is impossible to predict with certainty 
due to the variability in solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and 
from year to year”.
This statement is set out prominently alongside the illustrated output calculation, and so it 
was clearly made known to Mr A that the performance of his system was not guaranteed.
Upon installation of the solar panels, Mr A was issued with an MCS certificate as proof that 
the system was installed compliant to industry standards.  That certificate estimated that Mr 
A’s system would generate 2,555KWh of electricity each year.  A satisfaction note completed 
for Creation estimated the annual income Mr A would receive in FIT payments would be 
around £392.  This is clearly substantially lower than the £1,187 needed each year to service 
the loan payments to pay for the system.
A reading of Mr A’s meter on 5 September 2016 showed that the system had generated 
2,290KWh of electricity.  When pro-rated to a full year this provides a generation of 
2,572KWh – which is what was expected and in line with the estimate provided on the MCS 
certificate.
I understand Mr A says he was told that the system would be free, and I’ve taken that into 
account.  Also, it’s not uncommon for suppliers of solar panel systems to market them based 
on a self-funding model.  But I’m required to review each complaint on its own individual 
facts, taking account of any wider knowledge I have.
In this complaint, I’ve not seen anything to support Mr A’s assertion that the system would be 
self-funding – and the available documentation contradicts that claim.  Given the lack of 
marketing literature available, the investigator reviewed an archived version of Mainframe’s 
website.  She didn’t feel there was anything to suggest the system would be ‘free’ or ‘self-
funding’ – and I agree with that conclusion.
Ref: DRN5692941
3
I can’t be certain exactly what was discussed at the time of sale, and whilst I don’t doubt Mr 
A believes his recollection of events to be true, I feel to reasonably agree a representation 
was made I require evidence to support his position.  Without that evidence I’m unable to 
conclude the benefits of the system were misrepresented to Mr A.
Pressure applied at the time of sale
Mr A says that he was pressured into purchasing the system and entering the loan with 
Creation.  I have no doubt that the sales person was persuasive when discussing the system 
with Mr A, but both the purchase agreement and finance agreement provided cooling-off 
periods.  So, if Mr A was unsure or didn’t want the system, he had the opportunity to cancel 
the order or ask more questions.
Quality of solar panels
Mr A says Mainframe told him that the solar panels he was purchasing were of the highest 
quality and performance, but he feels the installed panels don’t meet that description.
I’ve not seen anything in the available documentation from the time of sale that refers to the 
quality of the solar panels. The installation was issued with an MCS certificate which 
confirms the panels are compliant with industry standards.
So, I’m not satisfied that any misrepresentation was made to Mr A in relation to the quality of 
the solar panels.  
Warranty
Mr A says that he wasn’t given details of the warranty for the solar panel system.  Creation 
has pointed out that section 8 of Mainframe’s terms and conditions provided information 
about the system warranty.
I’ve considered this point and I’m not persuaded Mr A has suffered any loss by not being 
familiar with the terms of the warranty.  If the system developed a fault, I would expect Mr A 
to check his paperwork and find reference to the warranty.  But as Mainframe is no longer 
operating, Creation would be responsible for honouring the terms of the warranty under s.75.
Summary
I appreciate Mr A is disappointed with the performance of his solar panel system and the 
final benefits it’s providing him, but I note it’s reached the level of energy output that was 
stated at the time of sale.
The CMC has suggested a holistic approach should be taken when considering Mr A’s 
complaint.  But whilst I’ve taken everything into account, I’m required to determine what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in Mr A specific circumstances.  Having done so, I’m not 
persuaded there is enough evidence for me to reasonably conclude there’s been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract – and so I can’t uphold the complaint against 
Creation.
Ref: DRN5692941
4
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr A’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5692941
