K820x#14
complaint
Mr W complains about goods he purchased under a running credit account he had with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, and about poor service he received when he complained.
background
In December 2017 Mr W entered a running account credit agreement with Creation. In the 
same month, a third party retailer sent a repairman to fix a fridge-freezer and a washing 
machine which he already owned. Shortly afterwards, in January 2018, Mr W bought a 
television from the same retailer, which he paid for with his Creation account.
Mr W’s complaint about the television is that he was promised a £200 discount and a £100 
gift card, but that the promise of a discount was not honoured. He says that the contract to 
buy the television was misrepresented to him. His complaint about the fridge-freezer and 
washing-machine is that the repairs were not satisfactory. He also complains about poor 
customer service by the retailer. The retailer offered him £200 compensation for those 
issues, but Mr W was not satisfied. He asked Creation for compensation for all of these 
issues under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. After a delay, he complained that 
Creation had lost his section 75 letter.
Creation apologised for the delay in dealing with Mr W’s section 75 claim. It offered him £50 
for this. But it didn’t accept that section 75 applied to the repairs, or to the retailer’s customer 
service issues. It referred Mr W’s complaint about the television to the retailer.
Mr W was not satisfied with that, so he brought this complaint to our Service. Creation 
increased its offer of compensation for its delay in dealing with his claim to £100. But it said 
there was no evidence that Mr W had been offered a discount. One of our investigators 
agreed with that, and she thought £100 was fair compensation for the delay. So she did not 
uphold this complaint. Mr W asked for an ombudsman’s decision. He wants nearly £4,000.
my findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act can make the provider of 
credit equally liable with a supplier of goods or services where the supplier is paid with credit 
and there is a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier. Here, Creation was 
the provider of credit with which the television was bought, so it will be liable if the retailer 
promised Mr W a discount on the television and failed to keep that promise – provided that 
the failure amounts to either a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. But it’s not liable for 
poor customer service by the supplier.
I haven’t seen evidence that the repairs to the fridge-freezer and the washing machine were 
paid for with credit provided by Creation, or that the repaired items were purchased with 
credit provided by Creation and that they were faulty when they were sold. So section 75 
doesn’t apply to these matters.
Ref: DRN5466822
2
I can therefore only consider Mr W’s complaint about the sale of the television, and how 
Creation handled his claim under section 75.
how Creation handled Mr W’s claim
Mr W first complained to Creation in April 2018. Under rules made by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), Creation had eight weeks from when it received that letter in which to give 
Mr W its final response to his complaint, but it was also supposed to acknowledge receipt of 
his letter in the meantime. On receiving no reply, Mr W chased Creation for a response, and 
it transpired that his letter had been received but then mislaid, causing a delay. In May, 
Creation wrote to Mr W to apologise.
Creation sent him another letter in June to say that it would try to send him a final response 
within eight weeks of that letter. But it actually sent him its final response the very next day. 
That was eleven weeks after it first received his complaint letter, or three weeks later than 
the rules allow.
This final response letter said that Creation had referred Mr W’s complaint to the retailer, and 
that Creation would monitor how the retailer dealt with the complaint, but would not yet treat 
this as a complaint against Creation. It said this was because the retailer was better placed 
to investigate what had happened, since the complaint was about what the retailer had done. 
I don’t think that was a very helpful response, because in his April complaint letter Mr W had 
told Creation that he had already raised a complaint directly with the retailer in March. So 
he’d had to wait eleven weeks to find out that Creation had done precisely nothing. If 
Creation was going to do that, then it should have done so much sooner.
In September, Creation wrote to Mr W again. This was a final response letter about the delay 
in dealing with his complaint, and also for not calling him back when it said it would. Creation 
had promised 14 times to call Mr W back, but had failed to mention that this could take up to 
24 hours. Creation apologised for these matters. Later that month, Creation offered him £50 
compensation. After he brought this complaint to our Service, Creation increased its offer to 
£100.
I think £100 is fair compensation for the issues to which it relates, and I won’t require 
Creation to do more. This is in line with what our Service would typically award.
the sale of the television
Creation has argued that it is not responsible for the offer of a discount and a gift card, 
because the retailer advertised those, and they would not have affected his application for 
credit. I disagree. As I explained above, section 75 makes the credit provider liable for what 
the retailer did, provided that it amounts to misrepresentation or breach of contract.
(Under the FCA’s rules, a business which receives a complaint about something for which 
another business is jointly or solely liable may refer the complaint to that other business, 
instead of dealing with it itself. However, I have already explained above why Creation was 
wrong to do that in this instance. In any case, the relevant rule does not prevent this Service 
from considering Mr W’s complaint about the outcome of his claim under section 75. It’s not 
a rule about our jurisdiction.)
Mr W did not expect the discount to be applied at the point of sale. The full price was paid for 
the television at the time. Rather, the “discount” was actually supposed to be a cashback 
Ref: DRN5466822
3
offer, whereby £200 would be refunded later if certain conditions were met. The cashback 
had to be claimed between 28 and 60 days after purchase. Mr W says that he discovered 
that he would not get the cashback when he tried to claim it in February 2018. In his 
complaint letter to the retailer in March, Mr W said that the offer had been vetoed by the 
store manager in February, when he found out about it. 
Mr W’s order history actually contains a number of orders of televisions, some of which were 
cancelled. The first was on 8 January 2018, for £949, which represents a discount of £30 on 
the normal price of £979. Mr W kept that television and made some payments towards it. 
There was a second order on the same date, at the full price of £979, which was cancelled. 
There was a third order on the same date, at the discounted price of £949, which was not 
cancelled, so he bought two televisions. This is not in dispute; Mr W has asked to be 
refunded for two televisions at £949 each. Then five days later there was a fourth order for 
another television of the same make, for £779 – which is indeed £200 less than the normal 
price.
That fourth order certainly supports Mr W’s case that he was offered a discount of £200. So 
I have considered whether I should uphold this complaint, based on that evidence. However, 
on balance I don’t think it does prove his case, for the following reasons.
Firstly, that order was not just for a television; it was an order for a television and a 
soundbar, and the soundbar was priced at £200 more than the normal price. So the net 
discount was nil. That suggests that the discount may have been processed in error.
Secondly, that order was cancelled. Mr W didn’t order another television after that, which 
suggests that he didn’t want three televisions. (He bought a soundbar – on its own – at the 
normal price five weeks later.)
Thirdly, that order was five days after he bought the first two televisions. It is not evidence 
that a £200 discount was offered to him five days earlier, when he bought the televisions he 
kept and now wants to be refunded.
Fourthly, as I have explained already, the offer Mr W is complaining he didn’t get was not a 
price discount at the point of sale, but a cashback or refund he was supposed to claim four 
weeks later. So the fourth order is not evidence that he was offered the cashback scheme.
I also considered the fact that Mr W bought two televisions but was only expecting to receive 
one cashback payment, not two. However, as the cashback was an incentive to buy a TV 
and broadband package, I have assumed that buying two TV sets wouldn’t have qualified 
him for two cashbacks, as he could presumably have used the same package for both TVs.
It is not in dispute that there was such a cashback scheme running at the time. But the 
retailer has told Creation that the offer was only available for online purchases, not for 
purchases in a store. If that is correct, then Mr W was not eligible for it. But if the staff in the 
store told him he was eligible, and if that induced him to buy a television he wouldn’t have 
bought otherwise, then that would be a misrepresentation. Alternatively, even if he would still 
have bought the televisions anyway, the failure to give him the cashback scheme (if it was 
promised to him) would arguably still be a breach of contract.
In a phone call with our investigator in May 2019, Mr W said that the salesman in the store 
told him that he would receive a letter with a code that he could use to claim the cashback 
online. He also said that he went back to the store on another occasion, and asked the same 
Ref: DRN5466822
4
salesman about the deal again. He says the salesman told him that both the duty manager 
and the store manager had confirmed that he would receive £300 (the cashback and the gift 
card). It was on this second visit that he bought the two televisions. Mr W then said that the 
store manager was on holiday, and that he was told to speak to him when he returned in two 
weeks to clarify the offer. When the store manager returned, he vetoed the deal.
This account of events raises the following problems.
Firstly, and most importantly, if the salesman told Mr W that the deal was subject to 
confirmation by the absent store manager, and Mr W bought the televisions anyway – 
without waiting for confirmation – then the deal would be neither a term of the contract nor a 
misrepresentation. It can’t be a contractual term if the salesman warned him that it might not 
happen. And by accepting the risk that it might not happen and buying the TVs anyway, 
Mr W has lost the opportunity to say that he only entered the contract to get the deal. He 
might well have bought two televisions from the same retailer anyway.
Secondly, Mr W has told us that the store manager was on holiday and was due to return in 
two weeks. However, he agrees that the cashback could not be claimed until at least four 
weeks after the purchase. So if he needed to confirm the deal was available to him, it’s not 
clear why he waited four weeks, instead of two weeks, to speak to the store manager about 
it. Again, this suggests that the deal was not so important to him that it was the only reason 
he bought the televisions.
(Thirdly, if the store manager was on holiday then it’s not likely that the salesman really 
spoke to him. I note that 14 months earlier, in March 2018 when Mr W first complained to the 
retailer, he didn’t mention that anyone had spoken to the store manager until a month after 
the sale. That earlier version of what happened seems more likely. However, it is still 
consistent with Mr W being told that the deal was subject to the store manager’s approval 
when he returned, so I don’t think that assists him.)
Even if I took a different view about all of that, there is one more reason why I think it 
wouldn’t be fair to uphold this complaint.
As I’ve said already, the cashback offer was an incentive to buy a TB/broadband package. 
To qualify for it, it was necessary to buy the package from the same retailer within seven 
days of buying a television. Then, once the service provider (a third party) had confirmed to 
the retailer that the package had been installed, the retailer would pay the £200 cashback 
within 21 days.
The trouble is that Mr W had already approached another retailer and bought the 
TV/broadband package from them (by switching from his old service provider to the new 
one). In fact, has Mr W told us that the new retailer gave him the £100 gift card as a reward 
for switching to it from the original retailer. In his March 2018 complaint letter to the new 
retailer, Mr W told them that he had decided to cancel his purchase of the TV/broadband 
package from the original retailer so that he could qualify for the new retailer’s £200 
cashback scheme.
It is clear that the whole point of the £200 cashback scheme was to give the new retailer’s 
customers an incentive to buy the TV/broadband package which Mr W had already bought 
from the original retailer (or would have bought had he not cancelled his purchase with 
them). So if the service provider already had a record of his cancelled purchase, then he 
may not have been eligible for the cashback offer (whether or not it was confined to online 
Ref: DRN5466822
5
purchases), since the service provider knew he already wanted it and had ordered it. 
I haven’t enquired as to whether this was indeed the case, however, because – whether the 
service provider knew about that or not, and whether that made Mr W ineligible for the offer 
or not – I don’t think it would be fair and reasonable to require Creation to pay Mr W a refund 
for not receiving a financial incentive to buy something which he’d already contracted to buy 
from another retailer.
In coming to this conclusion, I have taken into account the fact that Mr W didn’t go to the 
original retailer to buy a television, but to buy a phone. In fact, the original retailer doesn’t 
even sell televisions. So he would always have needed to go elsewhere to buy a television, 
and I think that would probably have been the new retailer whether the cashback offer was 
available to him or not.
So in summary, I am not persuaded that there was a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract by the second retailer – but even if I thought that there was, I still wouldn’t think it 
fair and reasonable to order Creation to uphold Mr W’s section 75 claim (whether for £200 or 
for £4,000).
did Creation agree to put Mr W’s account on hold?
Finally, Mr W has complained that Creation agreed to put his account on hold while his 
complaint was being dealt with by our Service, but that it didn’t keep to that agreement.
Our investigator asked Mr W if he had proof of an agreement. Mr W replied to say:
“I can forward an email sent to them stating this agreement. Again no response has 
been received but this was the agreement with them prior to involving your 
organisation.” [My emphasis.]
I’m afraid that that is not evidence of an agreement – it’s actually evidence of the opposite. 
There was not an agreement, there was just an email from Mr W to Creation, to which 
Creation did not reply. A proposal which is not accepted is not an agreement, and I do not 
think that a failure to reply to a proposal amounts to a tacit acceptance of it.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2019. But my final decision concludes this Service’s 
consideration of this complaint, which means I’ll not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5466822
