K821x#12
complaint
Mrs F complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her in October 2008 by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. The policy was sold with a fixed-
sum loan. It provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Mrs F says the policy 
was mis-sold.
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mrs F aware of the cost of the policy; in particular the interest charged on 
the PPI and also the effect this would have on her monthly loan repayments. And the 
adjudicator didn’t think Mrs F would have bought the policy if she had been made properly 
aware of this. 
Creation disagreed. In summary, it said; Mrs F ticked and signed the credit agreement to say 
she wanted the PPI; she was given enough information at the point of sale to make her 
aware there was interest charged on the PPI; and it was Mrs F’s responsibility to ask for 
further information if she felt she needed it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:
•
whether Creation gave advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mrs F’s needs; 
•
whether Creation gave Mrs F information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed choice about the policy she was buying; and
•
if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mrs F is worse off 
as a result (in other words would she have done something different – such as not 
buy the policy – but for any shortcomings?).
did Creation recommend the policy to Mrs F?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. It has provided some paperwork 
to support that; including a key facts document containing a policy summary and statement 
of price. These documents suggest Creation didn’t give Mrs F any specific recommendation. 
Mrs F also says she wasn’t advised to take the policy. Instead she has told us that she 
recalls the salesperson was busy with other customers and nothing was ever explained to 
Ref: DRN5079800
2
her about the PPI. Mrs F says the PPI was simply added to the agreement whether she 
needed it or not and she was told to sign where the agreement was marked with an ‘x’. 
I’ve taken note of Creation’s argument that Mrs F had to tick and sign separately on the 
credit agreement to say she wanted the PPI and that she therefore had a choice whether to 
buy the policy. Based on Mrs F’s description of the sale I have some concern that she may 
only have signed for the PPI because she was directed to do so by the salesperson – and 
that she may not have understood the implications of doing so. Mrs F’s recollection of the 
sale seems to be corroborated by the crosses marked at all the signature points on the credit 
agreement. However, I don’t need to reach any finding on that particular point, due to the 
failings I have identified – and will explain – below. 
Overall – and based on the available evidence – I’m not persuaded that Creation did give 
Mrs F a specific recommendation to buy the policy. This in turn means it didn’t have to take 
steps to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough information 
to allow her to make an informed choice about the policy she was buying. 
did Creation give Mrs F enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
I’m not satisfied that Creation met its responsibilities towards Mrs F. So I’m not satisfied 
Mrs F exercised her choice to buy the policy (if I accept that she knew she had a choice) in 
an informed way. I think Creation failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mrs F, in 
particular the interest charged on it. And I also think that, if she’d been aware of that 
information, she wouldn’t have bought the policy. 
When explaining why I’ve come to my findings I think it’s important to first consider the 
context in which Mrs F bought the policy. She was in a shop, buying a laptop and printer 
costing around £450. And she was borrowing £427 to pay for those items. 
It’s reasonable to assume that Mrs F’s main focus was on picking the right equipment for her 
needs; not on buying insurance to protect any finance she might have chosen to take out to 
pay for her purchases. Mrs F’s description of the sales environment suggests there was a lot 
going on, and that little or no time was given over to explaining the credit agreement to her. It 
seems unlikely, therefore, that much if any of Mrs F’s attention would have been given to, or 
directed towards, the information about the policy. 
Creation had a responsibility to make sure Mrs F’s attention was drawn to the important 
information about the policy which would be likely to affect her decision making. One of the 
most important features was the cost of the policy, including the interest that would be 
charged on it. This is especially so given that this was a single premium policy. 
Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, their cost structure is different – because the initial premium cost is 
often significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This is not a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and is not something Mrs F was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was she likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy. 
In the case of the policy sold to Mrs F, the premium cost £139, whereas the interest on that 
premium was £124. So the interest on the premium was almost as much as the premium 
itself. I think this was an unusual aspect of this policy and something Mrs F is unlikely to 
Ref: DRN5079800
3
have expected. And I have no reason to doubt that Mrs F would have considered this to be 
important information, in the context that she was buying non-essential goods of fairly 
modest cost. And also in the context that the total cost of the PPI was more than half the 
base cost of the goods she was buying. 
Creation says it did bring the interest to Mrs F’s attention. Firstly it says the credit agreement 
set out both the initial premium cost and also the total cost (the premium plus the interest). 
Secondly it says Mrs F would have seen the key facts document I referred to earlier in this 
decision, which included a statement of price. The statement of price set out the cost of the 
policy and the interest payable separately.
I don’t agree with Creation’s arguments. 
I say this firstly because the credit agreement was the main finance document and Mrs F 
could reasonably expect it to contain the important financial information she needed to know. 
But the credit agreement doesn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. Mrs F would 
have had to deduct the PPI premium from the total cost to find out what the interest cost 
was. 
The PPI premium and total amount payable for the policy were only two of several figures on 
the credit agreement. And those figures were only part of a large amount of overall 
information Mrs F would have had to take in and decipher. I’m not persuaded Mrs F would 
have known that she would have to work out the PPI interest herself, based on the 
information in the credit agreement. And relying on her to do her own calculations (whilst in a 
shop arranging finance to buy goods) couldn’t reasonably be said to be drawing this 
information to her attention in a clear and prominent way. 
 
The statement of price was on page two of a document titled “Creation Consumer Finance 
CreditCover Life, Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance 
Policy Summary”. Nothing in the title of this document suggests it would contain important 
information about the cost of the policy. Nor does it make Mrs F aware that she should look 
at the second page of this document to find out the interest being charged on her 
PPI premium. That wasn’t a prominent location. And I find it unlikely that Mrs F would have 
expected to find that information in that location. Yet this was the only document which 
showed the PPI interest as a separate figure. 
The policy summary also didn’t require Mrs F to sign to show she had read or received it. So 
I can’t be sure Mrs F even saw this document, or that Creation brought it clearly to her 
attention at the point of sale. Her description of the sale suggests it wasn’t drawn to her 
attention at all. 
Even if Mrs F did see the policy summary, I’m not persuaded she would have realised it 
contained important information about the cost of the policy over and above what she would 
reasonably have expected to find in the credit agreement itself. Given that she didn’t have to 
sign the policy summary, I also don’t find it likely that Mrs F would have given it the same 
level of attention she might have given to the credit agreement – which she did have to sign. 
I also note that none of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy. Had they done 
so, this might have better helped Mrs F understand the cost of the PPI relative to what she 
was spending on the goods she was buying. As a matter of good industry practice this is 
information I might reasonably expect to see in relation to this type of policy. 
Ref: DRN5079800
4
Creation says the onus was on Mrs F to review the information given and ask for further 
information if she didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to provide Mrs F with enough information about the main features and benefits 
of the policy to enable her to make an informed choice. 
For the reasons given above I find that Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it 
sold this policy to Mrs F, as it didn’t make her properly aware of the cost of the policy. Had 
Mrs F been given clearer information – and in the context that she was borrowing a fairly 
small sum where her monthly payments without the policy would have been very modest – 
I think Mrs F would be unlikely to have seen the policy as offering any real value to her. I find 
that she wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing.
Finally (and whilst I have already decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons set out 
above) I will add that I also have concerns about the 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ period 
and the way this was explained in the credit agreement. During the deferred period Mrs F 
would qualify for life cover under the policy. And if she repaid the finance before the end date 
she wouldn’t pay any interest on her loan, or anything for the PPI. But, if she didn’t repay 
during the deferred period, interest would be calculated from the date of the agreement. The 
whole balance outstanding (which included the PPI premium) would be accruing interest at 
29.8% for the whole of the deferred period. 
If Mrs F didn’t repay within the deferred period (and I understand that she didn’t do so) she 
would have paid a substantial additional amount in interest on the single premium PPI policy 
in the first year; when the only benefit gained was the ‘free’ life cover. I have taken into 
consideration that the credit agreement did set out how interest would be calculated. 
However, it was in a paragraph of closely spaced text and not easy for Mrs F to find. Again 
I’m not satisfied that this information was enough to make Mrs F aware of the implications of 
how the deferred period would affect the interest payable on the PPI premium. This only 
serves to compound the cost disclosure failing I have already set out above. 
fair redress
I find that, if Mrs F hadn’t bought the PPI policy, she would still have gone ahead with the 
loan. Therefore she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the 
PPI policy hadn’t been sold. The loan and the PPI had a term of 48 months (including the 
deferred period) so should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs F because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs F had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mrs F actually paid and paying her the 
difference. 
•
paying Mrs F interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B.
Write to Mrs F to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
Ref: DRN5079800
5
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs F needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mrs F should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs F compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN5079800
