K822x
complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, had phoned 
him on over 100 occasions in 40 days to collect a debt of just over £10, without any prior 
written contact to tell him that he owed it money. He said that the calls were distressing as 
he did not understand why he was receiving them, and he asked the callers to send him a 
letter to explain why they were calling. But he received nothing in writing.
background 
Mr D entered into a loan agreement with Creation in March 2012 which he then cancelled 
within the cancellation period set out in the agreement. Creation, in error, then took his first 
loan payment of £10.01. This was refunded to Mr D’s account in mid-July 2012, but a further 
refund of the same amount was made a week later. It is not clear whether this was made by 
Creation in error, or arose as a result of Mr D seeking a direct debit indemnity claim. But 
over a year later and out of the blue, Mr D started to receive many debt collection calls from 
Creation and he did not know what they referred to. He asked the callers to write to him 
about the matter, but received no letters. He found the calls harassing and said they were 
made at unsocial hours. 
The adjudicator said that Creation’s offer to pay Mr D compensation of £35 in addition to the 
compensation amount of £15 already paid to him, was fair and reasonable. He noted that 
Creation had also refunded the £10.01 to Mr D’s account with it, and that it had agreed to 
cease contacting Mr D by phone.
Mr D disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that he did not consider that the 
adjudicator had taken into account the many harassing calls he received at odd, unsocial 
hours, without prior written notice of the reason for the calls. He said that he had asked the 
callers to make their issue clear, but they had failed to do this. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Mr D’s detailed correspondence that he has very strong feelings about 
Creation’s actions. We are not a regulator and have no power to fine or punish a financial 
institution for any errors made, or to make awards of compensation which are intended to be 
punitive. But we can consider a complaint individually on its own merits, and award what we 
consider to be fair and reasonable compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused 
directly by an error.
As Creation’s debt collections team did not start to contact Mr D until after a year following 
the duplicate refund, I consider that it would have been reasonable for Creation to have first 
written to Mr D to explain that he owed it £10.01. It would also have been reasonable for the 
debt collection callers to have explained the reason for their calls, and to then write to Mr D 
as he had requested. I can understand that Mr D was distressed by the volume of calls in a 
short space of time, and the lack of explanation for the calls. I find that Creation should pay 
Mr D £25 compensation (in addition to the total amount of £50 recommended by the 
adjudicator) for the distress caused by Creation’s actions.
I also consider that Creation failed to respond clearly and substantively to Mr D’s complaint.
Ref: DRN6326661
2
I do not consider that it clearly explained whether the second payment was as a result of the 
direct debit guarantee. It produced a direct debit advice report relating to Mr D’s direct debit 
dated in late March 2012, but it is not clear from this as to when and if it was exercised 
successfully. Its statement of Mr D’s account is also unclear in that it shows two payments of 
£10.01, and two refunds of £10.01 but the reasons for the last three of these were unclear to 
Mr D from the statement. Its correspondence is also confusing. In its letter dated 
16 July 2012, it said that Mr D had paid the cancellation payment on time, but its letter dated 
28 October 2013 said that the cancellation payment was made after the right of withdrawal 
period. So, in these circumstances, I find that Creation should pay Mr D £50 compensation 
for his time and trouble caused by its poor complaint handling. 
I am aware that Mr D would like more compensation. Whilst I understand his strength of 
feeling in this matter, where this service makes an award for distress and inconvenience, the 
award we make generally tends to be modest. After taking into account the underlying 
causes of the complaint and all available submissions, I consider that a total payment of 
£110 compensation, in addition to the payment of £15 already made by Creation, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, to pay Mr D £110 compensation.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6326661
