K821x#15
complaint
Mr F complains that the secondary glazing he paid for through a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd was not fit for purpose.
background
Mr F says that when he ordered the secondary glazing he checked with the salesman that it 
would not restrict the ability for his windows to open inwards. He says that he had his 
windows adapted a number of years beforehand so they could be opened inwards to enable 
them to be cleaned and maintained from indoors. Following the salesperson’s visit, an 
inspection took place to ensure the suitability of the glazing. Mr F says the inspector was 
aware of his requirements. The second glazing was installed in January 2015.
Mr F says that it was not until months later when he wanted to have some maintenance 
carried out that he discovered the secondary glazing prevented the windows from being 
opened inwards. He contacted the supplier which explained that the only way to have 
maintenance carried out from the inside would be to have the windows removed and then 
replaced once the work had been done. It said this would cost approximately £1,000 and an 
offer was made to cover the cost of doing this the first time. Mr F said he wanted the glazing 
removed and a full refund as he did not want to be incurring additional costs every time 
maintenance was required.
Creation did not uphold Mr F’s complaint. It says it discussed his complaint with the supplier 
which said it had offered as a goodwill gesture to remove and then replace the windows 
when painting was required as a one off. It says the supplier had closed this complaint as it 
had not had contact from Mr F.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He said that the supplier had a duty of care to identify 
and let Mr F know his windows would no longer operate in the same way after the 
installation. This didn’t happen and the installation meant the normal operation of the 
windows was restricted. He said the glazing had been misrepresented and that had Mr F 
known he would no longer be able to open the windows inward he would not have gone 
ahead with the installation. 
Creation did not agree with our adjudicator’s view.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F paid for his secondary glazing with a fixed sum loan agreement. Under the regulations 
Creation is liable if there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier.
In this case Mr F had windows that opened inwards. He has explained why this was 
important given the position of his property and the need to undertake regular maintenance 
from the inside. Mr F has said he had his windows adapted a number of years before the 
secondary glazing to enable them to open inwards.
Based on what Mr F has said I can see why it was important to him that his windows 
continued to be able to be opened inwards after the secondary glazing was installed. He has 
Ref: DRN6912940
2
said that he told the salesperson this and he was told this would be fine. A technical survey 
was then carried out.
Given the importance of the operation of the windows I find it more likely than not that Mr F 
would have raised this issue before agreeing to the secondary glazing. Given a technical 
survey was carried out this should have identified whether the glazing was suitable for Mr F’s 
windows. Mr F says the person carrying out the survey was aware of his needs.
On balance I find it more likely than not that Mr F raised the issue of his windows needing to 
open inwards after the installation and based on the information he received, believed this 
would still be able to happen. 
Mr F did not raise his complaint until October 2016 even though the glazing was installed in 
January 2015. He has explained that he only became aware of the issue when he wanted to 
have the outside of the windows painted. 
Had Mr F been aware that the glazing would restrict the operation of his windows I accept 
that he would not have gone ahead with the installation. Because I think it more likely than 
not that Mr F was led to believe his windows would still be able to open inwards after the 
installation I believe a misrepresentation has occurred.
The supplier has said that the windows cannot be adapted and that the only way to have the 
maintenance done from the inside is to remove the windows and then replace them. It 
offered to cover the cost of this on the first occassion. Given the issue will be ongoing and 
Mr F would be required to have the windows removed each time he needed to carry out 
maintenance I can see why this was not an acceptable resolution for him.
Overall, given the specific circumstances of this case, I find the fair resolution is for the 
glazing to be removed from Mr F’s windows at no cost to him and the payment he has made 
under his agreement to be refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1.
arrange to have the secondary glazing removed from Mr F's property at his 
convenience and at no cost to him; and
2.
refund all payments Mr F has made for the secondary glazing plus 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2017.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912940
