K821x#15
complaint
Miss O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent to her irresponsibly and the loan 
wasn’t affordable. Miss O is being assisted in her complaint by her sister Miss H.
background
In August 2017 Miss O applied for a loan of £5,000 through Creation. At the time she had 
one dependent child (at sixth form) and was in full time work, albeit that she had time off sick 
earlier in the year. 
Miss O applied for the loan for home improvements. It was over 60 months repayable at 
£120.83 a month. Creation carried out a lending check and agreed the loan. Miss O made 
the first two repayments but no more until she received help from her sister and debt advice 
charities. 
Miss H tells us Miss O has been through an extremely difficult time which included her being 
financially abused and she now suffers with post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental 
health concerns. Miss H helps Miss O with her finances and has made a number of 
complaints about irresponsible lending to various lenders including Creation – Miss O had 
managed to borrow about £40,000 in a short space of time. Although Creation had recently 
accepted a payment arrangement from Miss O it didn’t think it had done anything wrong in 
deciding to lend.
Unhappy with that Miss H asked us to look into Miss O’s complaint. Our investigator upheld 
it as she didn’t think Creation had carried out sufficient checks when deciding to lend. And 
she concluded the information it did have should have alerted it to Miss O being a high risk 
borrower. She asked for the interest and charges to be written off and Miss O’s credit file 
amended. She also asked for £400 for the distress this lending had caused as Miss O had 
been pushed to crisis point. 
Although Creation didn’t agree it had done anything wrong, it did agree to write off the 
interest and charges applied to the loan. However, it didn’t agree to remove any information 
from Miss O’s credit file in relation to the debt. This was because it was supposed to be an 
accurate reflection of the account history and will mean this debt won’t be taken into account 
by other lenders in the future. It didn’t comment about the £400 award for the distress 
caused.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I uphold this complaint 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I explain why below. 
Under the regulations in place, Creation is required to undertake a reasonable assessment 
of creditworthiness of a customer before entering into a credit agreement or increasing the 
level of credit granted. Checks are required to be proportionate and it’s for Creation to show 
that it carried out reasonable checks before deciding to lend. There is no set format for the 
checks but lenders should be carrying out credit risk assessments and affordability risk 
assessments using such information as the customer’s income, savings or assets and 
whether repayments will have a significant impact on the customer’s financial situation. 
Ref: DRN6378151
2
Creation has referred to Miss O not telling it she had a dependant at the time of applying for 
the loan and that she had been in receipt of sick pay.   I understand this information might 
have had a bearing on its decision to lend. But I also need to bear in mind the circumstances 
we have both been made aware of and that Miss O has little recollection of events from that 
time and was often confused. I accept Creation wouldn’t have been aware of that and would 
have assessed Miss O’s credit worthiness in good faith on the information it had. And that 
has also been borne in mind when reaching my decision. 
There is some common ground regarding Miss O’s circumstances at the time of the 
application. Although she had been off sick previously, she was in full time work taking home 
about £1,900 net a month. The information provided shows she:

Already had existing credit with three credit card providers and three loan providers.

In the weeks leading up to the loan application had two very short term loans (one 
only lasting two weeks) for several thousand pounds. 

Had missed repayments. 

Had already used over 90% of her available credit card balances. 

Had five defaults in the four year period to the loan application. 

Two credit checking applications searches had been carried out. 

And an additional 19 quotation searches had been carried out by lenders. 
I understand Creation did review Miss O’s credit history and so this information was 
available to it at the time. Given the number of missed payments and credit applications, 
alongside the default history and the two very short term loans, I think this should have 
prompted Creation to do further checks to ensure Miss O passed a credit risk assessment 
and an affordability risk assessment – the history suggested some volatility in how Miss O 
was managing, or not managing, her finances. Had it undertaken a more in depth review, as 
I think it should have done, it would have come to light that Miss O was spending large sums 
on a gambling website. This information was readily available on her monthly account 
statements. Had that been done I consider it highly unlikely a prudent lender would have 
lent, and so Creation shouldn’t have done.
As I don’t think Creation did sufficient checks during the application process to ensure it lent 
responsibly, I uphold this complaint. To that end Creation needs to put Miss O, so far as is 
reasonably possible, in the position she would have been in had she not been lent to. But in 
reaching that decision I also need to take into account that Miss O has had use of the money 
and so has benefitted from it. To that end I require Creation to:

Remove all interest and charges from the amount lent and to be repaid under the 
terms of the loan.

Rework any payments Miss O has made to ensure they reduce the balance of the 
£5,000 loan.

Remove any entries from Miss O’s credit file in relation to this loan.
I know Creation disagrees with removing information from Miss O’s credit history and is 
particularly concerned at future attempts at borrowing. But had Creation lent responsibly 
there wouldn’t be any credit information recorded for Creation at all – as no loan would have 
been granted. And that’s the position Miss O needs to be put in, the position she would be in 
had the loan not been granted. I accept she is still paying money back to Creation, but that’s 
only because she has benefitted from the money and so it should fairly be repaid. 
Ref: DRN6378151
3
I also agree with the investigator’s assessment that Creation should pay Miss O £400 for the 
distress this matter has caused. Creation hasn’t made any argument against it. The loan put 
Miss O into further indebtedness at a time when she was already in a vulnerable situation. 
And that was something Creation should have spotted had it done further checks at the 
application stage. Miss O got herself into a difficult financial situation, part of which Creation 
is responsible for. And her circumstances and situation brought her to a crisis point. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to compensate Miss O in accordance with what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6378151
