K820x#14
complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has held her liable for a transaction on 
her account, made abroad on 15 February 2016.
Mrs S says she didn’t make or authorise the transaction but Creation has refused to refund 
its value to Mrs S’ account.
background
When Mrs S was abroad, she withdrew about £50, in the local foreign currency, from her 
account with another bank. She says she placed this in her pocket and the card back into 
her purse. Mrs S recalls that during this time, there appeared to be a large crowd of people 
near the cash machine.
Following this, Mrs S says her purse was stolen from her bag. Then, there were subsequent 
withdrawals made from accounts she held with a number of banks (or the like), using 
different cards. Mrs S says her personal identification number (“PIN”) for all her accounts 
was the same. And a fraudster was able to make those transactions, having stolen the 
purse, gained access to all the cards, and probably seen the PIN being entered.
Creation refused to refund the disputed transaction. There were no balance enquiries carried 
out prior to the withdrawals and there were no failed PIN attempts. The fraudster waited over 
an hour before using the card, which seemed unlikely. It said there was a delayed report of 
the fraud. And it was concerned about the appearance of the transaction as being fraud.
Our adjudicator didn’t consider that she could recommend Creation refund, to Mrs S, the 
value of the disputed transaction. She had noted that whoever made the disputed 
transaction had not checked the available balance on the account before they started using 
the card. She accepted that it couldn’t be assumed that a fraudster would have been able to 
check the balance on the account by using the card, in a machine, in the location concerned.   
However, the adjudicator took note of the wider circumstances in which it’s claimed that the 
disputed transaction took place on this account and on the other accounts, all with different 
banks. She also noted the historical use of all the accounts and the nature and value of the 
recent transactions across them, as well as how the fraud claim was presented.  
She noted what the first transaction was in each case; the timing of the disputed transactions 
and notifications of fraud; and she considered the likelihood of this disputed transaction 
having taken place as a result of a fraudster obtaining the card and PIN, rather than Mrs S 
having either made it or authorised it.
And the adjudicator considered the latter more likely.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has asked for her complaint to be reviewed. She has restated that balance enquiries 
couldn’t have been made; she disputes what the bank has said about the distance between 
where the card is said to have been taken and the disputed transactions made; and she 
Ref: DRN6063102
2
reminded the adjudicator that further attempts to use cards after fraud was reported to the 
banks by her suggests that a fraudster was involved. 
I’ve taken into account all that Mrs S has said. But I’ve also taken into account the same 
considerations, as I’ve detailed previously, as the adjudicator – specifically, the wider 
circumstances surrounding the fraud, across all of Mrs S’ accounts; and the pattern and 
nature of the disputed transactions. 
And I don’t consider I can fairly and reasonably conclude that Creation has acted incorrectly 
here. I consider that Mrs S hasn’t been able to demonstrate that Creation is wrong in holding 
her liable for the disputed transaction, on the basis that it’s more likely than not that a 
fraudster carried out the transactions than they were made or authorised by her.
I’ve noted the upset that Mrs S is suffering as a result of her not receiving a refund of the 
value of the transaction. And I’m very sorry to learn of her distress and concern. But I’m 
afraid that I don’t consider I can fairly and reasonably decide that the bank should act as 
Mrs S is asking me to require it to.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2016.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6063102
