K821x#15
complaint
Mrs B complains about the adverse information that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has 
recorded on her credit file.
background
Mrs B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in 
December 2015 to finance her purchase of some furniture. She changed bank accounts in 
January 2016. Two direct debits to Creation Consumer Finance were showing on the 
account so she cancelled one. But she was then contacted by Creation Consumer Finance 
because her direct debit in March 2016 had been cancelled. She complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance but wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Mrs B’s bank had 
provided evidence to show that one of the direct debits was cancelled by Creation Consumer 
Finance. So the adjudicator recommended that it should remove the late payment marker 
from Mrs B's credit file for March 2016 and that it should pay her £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she’d been caused.
Creation Consumer Finance disagrees with the adjudicator’s recommendation and Mrs B 
says that she should receive a higher amount of compensation.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear that there were two direct debits set up from Mrs B’s bank account to Creation 
Consumer Finance. And from the evidence that has been provided to me, I consider it to be 
more likely than not that one of them was cancelled by Mrs B and the other was cancelled by 
Creation Consumer Finance. Neither party intended that both direct debits be cancelled and 
the confusion about them has resulted in payments being missed. I’m persuaded that Mrs B 
took reasonable steps to ensure that her payments to Creation Consumer Finance 
continued. So I consider that the late payment markers don’t give a true and accurate 
assessment of her payment history.
I therefore consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation 
Consumer Finance: to remove the late payment markers that it recorded on Mrs B’s credit 
file about the payments in about March 2016 under the fixed sum loan agreement; and to 
pay her £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I’m not persuaded 
that these events justify a higher award of compensation to Mrs B.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs B’s complaint in part. In full and final 
settlement of it, I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Remove from Mrs B’s credit file the late payment markers about her payments in 
about March 2016 under the fixed sum loan agreement.
Ref: DRN6396122
2
2.
Pay £75 to Mrs B to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that she’s 
been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2016.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6396122
