K822x
complaint
Mr T complains that a car – which he financed using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited – was not of satisfactory quality. He is being helped 
with his complaint by his father.
background
Mr T bought a used car in July 2015. He used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance to pay for the car. As part of the financial arrangements, the dealer paid 
£1,500 that Mr T owed under an earlier finance agreement. The car developed a fault and 
Mr T complained to the dealer. The dealer arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert. Mr T then complained to Creation Consumer Finance. He wasn’t 
satisfied with Creation Consumer Finance’s response so complained to this service. 
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
independent report says: “The vehicle has a misfire to the point that it was not considered to 
be safe to be driven. In our opinion we consider on the balance of probability the condition 
was present or developing at the commencement of hire”. So she concluded that, because 
the car isn’t safe to drive and Mr T has lost confidence in it, he should be entitled to reject 
the car. 
Creation Consumer Finance accepted the adjudicator’s recommendation but said that the 
dealer had paid £1,500 “negative equity” – and it said that he should be required to pay that 
amount to the dealer. I understand that Mr T has agreed to that. The dealer has also raised 
concerns about the car’s mileage and its condition. Because these issues haven’t been 
finalised, Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The independent report clearly states that the car has a fault, it’s considered to be unsafe to 
drive and it’s likely that the fault was present at the time of sale. I haven’t been provided with 
any equivalent evidence to show that the car isn’t faulty. So I’m satisfied that the car has a 
fault which was present when the car was sold to Mr T. And I find that it wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality at that time. Creation Consumer Finance has agreed to accept the 
rejection of the car and the cancellation of the fixed sum loan agreement. As the car wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality when it was sold to Mr T, I don’t consider that its current mileage or 
condition is relevant to this complaint – the car shouldn’t have been sold to him and he is 
entitled to reject it.
But I do consider that Mr T should be responsible for the £1,500 that the dealer paid to end 
his earlier finance agreement. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable for him to pay 
that amount to the dealer or for him to agree a repayment plan with Creation Consumer 
Finance for that amount.
Ref: DRN6892677
2
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr T’s complaint. Subject to Mr T paying 
£1,500 to the dealer (or agreeing a repayment plan with Creation for that amount), in full and 
final settlement of this complaint, I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr T.
2.
Cancel the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr T.
3.
Arrange for the loan to be removed from Mr T’s credit file as if the agreement had 
never taken place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2016.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6892677
