K821x#15
complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), then known as Open and 
Direct Retail Services Limited, mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to her, 
when she took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mrs B bought some furniture in a store. She took out a loan to pay for it. At the same 
time she bought a single premium PPI policy, the cost of which was added to the loan. It 
gave her cover if she was off work because of accident or sickness, or she lost her job. And 
it included life cover too.
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. This meant Mrs B wouldn’t have to pay 
interest – or pay for the PPI - if she paid off the loan within that time. If she didn’t pay it off by 
then, she’d have to pay interest over the remaining 36 months of the loan, including on the 
premium for the PPI policy.
Mrs B has raised various issues about how the PPI was sold to her. These include that she 
says she didn’t want PPI, and doesn’t think she agreed to have it. 
Our adjudicator took the view that Mrs B’s complaint should be upheld. He didn’t think 
Creation had made the cost of the policy clear enough to her. And he didn’t think Mrs B 
would’ve taken out the policy, if Creation had done that.
But Creation doesn’t agree. It says the information Mrs B was given was enough for her to 
understand what the PPI cost. So the complaint’s come to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs B’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold her complaint. I’ll explain why.
From what we’ve been told, I think the PPI was probably sold face to face, while Mrs B was 
in the store. Creation had to make sure Mrs B was made aware of the cost and key features 
of the PPI, in a way that was clear and fair and wasn’t misleading. And I’ve looked in 
particular at the information she got about its cost. 
I don’t know what, if anything, was discussed about PPI in the store. But I’ve read the 
paperwork I’ve been given. It includes the loan agreement Mrs B signed. That agreement 
told her the amount of the PPI premium and the total cost of the PPI, including interest. But it 
didn’t show that interest as a separate figure. She’d have had to work it out for herself. I 
don’t think that was reasonable. She was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the cost of the PPI to be made clear in the agreement – and it wasn’t.
And in my view the agreement didn’t make clear enough the effect the ‘buy now pay later’ 
period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay the loan off during the first 12 
Ref: DRN6407938
2
months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at a rate of 29.8%. This 
meant Mrs B would pay a large amount of interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the 
only benefit she got from it was ‘free’ life cover. 
I’ve seen a policy summary, which Creation says Mrs B will’ve had before she agreed to buy 
the PPI. It includes a ‘statement of price’, on its second page. But I can’t be sure she was 
actually given this, and if so when - or whether she had an opportunity to read and think 
about it carefully, before she agreed to have the PPI. 
If Mrs B saw it at that time, it will’ve told her the amount of interest she’d have to pay on the 
PPI premium, if she didn’t pay off the loan inside 12 months. But this information was only 
towards the end of the policy summary. It wasn’t highlighted or easy to find, and it wasn’t 
where Mrs B might’ve reasonably expected it to be. So I don’t know whether it was drawn 
clearly to her attention - particularly as she was in a shop, and her main focus was probably 
on buying furniture, not on buying insurance. 
The interest payable on the PPI was almost as much as the premium itself. And the total 
cost of the policy was high too, compared to the amount Mrs B was borrowing. This was 
unusual, and I think it would’ve been important information for Mrs B to know, when she was 
deciding whether to buy the PPI. 
I see too that the paperwork she was given didn’t set out the monthly cost of the policy. This 
would’ve been good practice, and might’ve helped Mrs B understand what the policy was 
going to cost her.
So in my view, Creation didn’t tell Mrs B clearly enough how much the policy would cost her, 
before she bought it. I don’t think Mrs B would’ve properly understood the effect of the 
‘special offer date’ on the interest payable, and the total cost of the PPI. 
And based on what I know about her circumstances at that time, on balance I think it’s 
unlikely Mrs B would’ve bought the policy, if she’d been made fully aware how much it was 
going to cost. She’s said she would’ve got good employee benefits, which she could’ve used 
to make the repayments if she wasn’t working. And it wasn’t a big loan, or for an essential 
item. The monthly repayments, including the PPI, were only around £60. 
Creation says she could’ve cancelled the policy after signing the agreement. And I’ve 
thought about that. But in my view she should’ve been told the important information that she 
needed to know before she signed it. I don’t think the fact she didn’t cancel it afterwards 
meant she’d properly understood what it was costing her.
So overall, I think it’s fair and reasonable to uphold Mrs B’s complaint. Mrs B has lost out 
because of what Creation did wrong, and it needs to put things right. And I don’t need to deal 
with the other issues she’s raised about the sale.
putting things right
I’m told the loan has been paid off, and the PPI policy cancelled. But Mrs B borrowed extra 
to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been. She paid more than she 
should’ve each month, and it cost her more to repay the loan than it would’ve done. Mrs B 
needs to get back the extra she’s paid. 
So Creation should:
Ref: DRN6407938
3

Work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid without PPI.

Work out and pay Mrs B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what 
it would’ve cost to pay off the loan without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs B paid, from when she paid it until she gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs B’s complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is to pay her the fair compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2016.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6407938
