K821x#15
complaint
Ms T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a loan with it.
background
Ms T took out a loan with Creation over the phone in 2006. The cost of the policy was added 
to the loan and repaid over the loan term of 36 months, with interest.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because he didn’t think Creation had made it clear to 
Ms T that she had a choice about buying the policy or clearly told her what it’d cost. 
Creation disagreed. It says Ms T was given a quote for the loan with and without PPI and 
she provisionally accepted the policy over the phone. But that she had a chance to turn it 
down when she signed the loan agreement after receiving it in the post.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account in deciding 
Ms T’s case. 
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
Creation had to make clear to Ms T that she had a choice whether to take PPI. And I don’t 
think it did that here. I say this because:
-
I’m concerned that the script Creation sent to us doesn’t give any indication that it 
would’ve told Ms T the policy was optional, or asked for her consent to add the PPI to 
her loan. The script does mention quotes ‘with and without’ PPI but it doesn’t say 
what form those quotes took, or how Creation expected the advisor to present them 
to Ms T. 
-
The phone script we’ve been sent for sales at that time says ‘once you have received 
your policy terms and conditions you have a 30 day cooling off period, so if you 
change your mind you can cancel the payment protection policy only’. But I think this 
gives the impression the PPI was included in the loan with the expectation that a 
consumer would cancel it afterwards if they didn’t want it.
-
I accept that Ms T could’ve cancelled the policy during the cooling off period. But, 
before she agreed to the loan, she was entitled to be given a choice about taking it 
without PPI as well as being told the important information she needed to know. I 
don’t think the fact Ms T didn’t cancel the policy afterwards means she had a choice 
about whether to take it or was happy with it. And I don’t think it suggests that she 
understood what it was really costing her.
-
The loan agreement Creation sent out after the call did give Ms T a chance to sign 
two boxes; one to agree to the loan agreement and the other to buy PPI. But, by 
then, the PPI looked like an integral part of the loan. Also, it looks as though the 
adviser put large arrows next to both of the parts where Ms T needed to sign for both 
the loan and the PPI. So I think this would’ve undermined any impression of choice 
Ms T might’ve had. I think it’s more likely she just signed where she was told to. 
Ref: DRN6580313
2
I also have concerns that Creation failed to make Ms T aware of what the policy cost. All the 
important information about the cost of the policy should’ve been given to her during the call 
and in the loan agreement. However, the phone script doesn’t suggest the costs were 
explained in detail at all. And the loan agreement only set out the PPI premium and the total 
cost of the PPI with interest. It didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure or the 
monthly cost of the PPI. And I don’t think it was reasonable to expect Ms T to work it out for 
herself.
The statement of price did show the interest and the total cost – but it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Ms T would expect it to be. And Creation 
sent all of this information about what the policy cost to Ms T after she’d effectively agreed to 
buy it over the phone.
Taking everything into account, I don’t think Ms T would’ve taken the policy if Creation had 
done everything it should have done during the sale. So I uphold this complaint.
Finally, I have concerns about whether Ms T was eligible for the policy because she’s told us 
she wasn’t working full time at the time of the sale. But I haven’t gone into this in any more 
detail because I’m upholding this complaint for the reasons set out above.
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand Ms T might still be repaying this loan because she was in a debt management 
plan when she complained to this service. Ms T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her 
loan is bigger than it should’ve been. And she’s been paying more than she should’ve each 
month. So Ms T needs to get back the extra she’s paid and start paying what she should’ve 
been paying all along. 
So, Creation should cancel the policy (if it’s still running) and:

Pay Ms T the amount she needs to pay her lender so she can reduce the amount she 
owes on the loan to what it would be without PPI.

Work out and pay Ms T the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms T paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year †.

Show Ms T how it worked this out and the amount she still owes. And show Ms T how 
much her future payments will be (if any).

If Ms T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN6580313
3
I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Ms T the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2016.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580313
