K820x#14
complaint
Mr B acquired a used car in September 2018, by means of a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. He complains that the car was not of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. He also complains that Creation mis-sold the loan agreement to him.
background
Mr B is represented in this complaint by Mrs M, a close family member.  
On behalf of Mr B, Mrs M wrote to Creation in January 2019, and emailed it in February 
2019. She explained:

Why she considered the car not to be of satisfactory quality

That the car had been repeatedly repaired by the supplying dealership – but, after all 
these repairs, the car was still not of satisfactory quality

That the dealer had ignored her request to accept rejection of the car – as a result of 
which, she was referring this complaint to Creation
Creation responded to Mr B in March 2019, saying:

It understood that the car had been independently inspected, and the inspection 
report concluded that its current quality problems had not been present at the point of 
supply

In these circumstances, Mr B would need to provide evidence to show that the 
report’s conclusions were incorrect

It also noted that Mr B was not the car’s registered keeper

It understood as well from Mrs M that only she used the car, and that Mr B had never 
been insured to drive the car

This meant that the required relationship between debtor, creditor and supplier 
(which was necessary for it to be responsible for the car’s satisfactory quality) did not 
exist 

And so it was unable to uphold his complaint
Mrs M then referred Mr B’s complaint to us. She also complained that Mr B had been 
mis-sold his loan agreement:

Mr B had understood that the loan he agreed was a PCP (a type of loan with lower 
monthly repayments, except the last one, compared with a ‘standard’ agreement – 
but with a large ‘balloon’ final repayment)

Mr B had not been given a copy of the agreement at the point of supply, and he only 
discovered much later that it was not a PCP
We asked Creation to respond to both aspects of Mr B’s complaint (unsatisfactory quality 
and mis-selling). It told us:

It had no liability in this complaint, because the required DCS (debtor, creditor and 
supplier) relationship did not exist – the sole user of the car (Mrs M) was not the 
finance holder (Mr B), who did not drive the car and was not the ultimate beneficiary

Even if the required DCS relationship had existed, the conclusions of an independent 
inspection report were that the car’s current problems were not present at the point of 
supply, and so were not its responsibility
 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She agreed with Creation that 
the DCS relationship, required for it (as the finance provider) to be potentially responsible for 
the car’s satisfactory quality, did not exist.  
Ref: DRN6216009
2
Mrs M (on behalf of Mr B) disagreed, saying that she failed to understand why Creation was 
not responsible for miss-selling the loan agreement. And so this complaint was referred for 
review by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Mr B, Mrs M, Creation and the dealership are in a four-way relationship. Creation provides 
the credit, Mrs M derives benefit from the goods supplied using that credit, the dealership 
supplies the goods, and Mr B takes on the debt but derives no benefit. 
This is different from the typical three-way relationship, in which the beneficiary is also the 
debtor. And it is only in a typical three-way relationship that Creation (as the finance 
provider) has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding 
to their description, have been supplied. Even then, there are limits to Creation’s 
responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present or developing at the point of supply.
So I agree with Creation and our investigator that Creation is not potentially responsible for 
the car’s satisfactory quality. But there is still the other aspect of this complaint (mis-selling) 
to consider. 
We asked Mrs M if she or Mr B were able to provide any supporting evidence for this aspect 
of the complaint. She told us:

There were no emails or other documents relating to what was discussed when she 
and Mr B went to the dealer’s premises, and Mr B entered into the agreement, during 
September 2018

While at the dealer’s premises, it was made to seem that Mr B would be entering into 
an agreement just like previous ones with which they were familiar – but she might 
not have checked the paperwork closely

The dealer was fully aware that Mr B would be signing the agreement, and that 
Mrs M would be driving the car – the dealer did not mention to them any problems 
that this arrangement might create

They did not receive a copy of the agreement to take away at that time, and not until 
she contacted Creation during January 2019 to ask for one to be sent to them
Mr B entered into a unsecured fixed sum loan agreement, requiring 54 equal monthly 
repayments of just under £170. This is a standard type of loan agreement, and Mr B was 
using it to acquire a 90 month old car that had travelled about 46,000 miles. 
It is possible that a different type of loan (such as hire purchase or conditional sale, linked to 
the car and set up as a PCP) would not have been considered suitable by finance providers 
– either because of the car’s age and/or mileage, or because Mr B would be signing the 
agreement while Mrs M would be the car’s keeper. But the equal monthly repayments ought 
to have signalled to Ms M and Mr B that the agreement was not a PCP. 
Ref: DRN6216009
3
It is hard to find anything specifically wrong with the loan agreed with Mr B, which would 
point to mis-selling, given the limited information available to me about this transaction. That 
is even though, in the particular circumstances of this transaction, the finance provider would 
not be jointly responsible with the supplying dealership for the car’s satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  
I sympathise with Mr B and Mrs M. And I cannot completely rule out the possibility of 
miss-selling. But, on balance, I am unable to find that Creation mis-sold the loan agreement 
to Mr B. This means that I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. 
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6216009
