K821x#12
complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy when he took out a £7,220 loan by 
telephone in 2009. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and repaid over the loan 
term.  
background
Our adjudicator said Mr B’s complaint should be upheld. They didn’t think Creation had 
made it clear to Mr B that he had a choice about buying the policy. And they also didn’t think 
Creation had properly told him how much the cover would cost. The adjudicator concluded 
that Mr B wouldn’t have bought the policy if he had known these things. 
Creation disagreed. It said the sales script and loan agreement made clear the policy was 
optional. And the paperwork it sent to Mr B also explained what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr B’s complaint, because:
•
Creation effectively sold the policy to Mr B over the phone. So he would have relied 
more on what he was told during the call than on anything he got in writing 
afterwards. But Creation didn’t make clear during the telephone call that Mr B had a 
choice about buying the policy. 
•
The telephone script Creation says would have been followed only gave one brief 
mention of the policy being optional. It didn’t ask for Mr B’s explicit consent to add the 
PPI to the loan. And the credit agreement he received afterwards also didn’t make 
clear that the policy was optional; particularly if that wasn’t first made clear during the 
call.
•
The brief mention of cancellation rights wasn’t enough to make Mr B aware he had a 
choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given him the confidence to 
cancel the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told him he had a choice about 
whether to buy it.
•
I can see that Mr B ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that 
didn’t describe the PPI as optional. And by then the PPI looked like an integral part of 
the loan. The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mr B didn’t tick and sign. 
And although the very last sentence on the statement of price said it was ‘not a 
requirement’ of the loan to buy the policy, this could be easily overlooked. 
•
The script didn’t properly disclose the policy costs. The credit agreement did set out 
the single premium (£1,972.63) and the total cost of the PPI. But it didn’t set out the 
interest (£1,283.48) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to expect 
Ref: DRN6885182
2
Mr B to work out that figure for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important 
information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.  
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr B would expect it to be.   
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would have 
been good practice and it might have helped Mr B to better understand what the 
policy was costing him.  
•
I don’t think Mr B would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware he 
had a choice, or if he’d known how much it was going to cost him, compared to the 
amount of the loan and what he was paying for it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mr B’s complaint.
fair compensation 
Mr B should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand that Mr B’s loan and policy are still in place. I also understand 
that Mr B made a successful claim under the cover and that he has now entered into a 
payment plan with Creation to repay the borrowing. 
If Mr B agrees to Creation cancelling the PPI policy Creation should:
A.
Restructure the loan (without charge to Mr B) so that:
•
any outstanding PPI is removed, and
•
the number and amounts of any future loan repayments (including any interest and 
charges) are the same as they would have been if Mr B had taken out the loan 
without PPI.
B.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr B because PPI was 
added to his loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr B had taken out the 
loan without PPI
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mr B actually paid and paying him the 
difference 
•
paying Mr B interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†
•
taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr B when the policy is cancelled 
or the value of any successful claim.
C.
Write to Mr B to set out what he still owes and how much he will pay and when as a 
result of (A). This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under 
(B).
If Mr B wants to use any money he receives to reduce the loan, Creation should allow this. 
But it cannot require Mr B to reduce the loan to less than it would be now had Mr B not 
bought the PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN6885182
3
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr B needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr B should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr B’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must pay Mr B fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6885182
