K822x
complaint
Miss P complains she was told that a fixed sum loan she took with Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited was interest free for 24 months. But, this turned out not to be the case. 
background 
Miss P took the loan on 15 November 2014 to buy a computer. She says the salesman told 
her the loan was interest free for 24 months. She says she didn’t understand the agreement 
and relied on what the salesman said. She says she thought she’d been making monthly 
payments towards the loan. But, in November 2015, Creation said she hadn’t paid. And, if 
she didn’t pay in full, it would start charging interest for the next three years. She says the 
agreement was misrepresented. And, Creation took too long to respond to her complaint.
Creation says it wasn’t there at the point of sale, so can’t comment on what was said. It says 
it reviewed Miss P’s agreement. It’s satisfied this was only interest free, providing Miss P 
paid £506.47 for the goods, plus an early settlement fee of £25, before 16 November 2015. It 
says it wrote to Miss P in October 2015 to remind her of what she had to pay before it 
started charging interest. It says she signed the agreement, indicating she’d read and 
understood it. It agrees it delayed in responding to Miss P’s complaint, and apologised.  
The adjudicator says Miss P’s agreement allowed her to either pay in full within 12 months 
and pay no interest, or to pay in 36 monthly instalments, plus interest. She accepts Miss P 
felt she had relied on what the salesman said. But, she says she signed the agreement, 
indicating she was happy to go ahead and aware of the terms. She feels Miss P should have 
known she wasn’t making monthly payments. She doesn’t uphold the complaint.
After speaking with the adjudicator, Creation agreed to pay Miss P £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the delay in dealing with her complaint. The adjudicator thinks this is reasonable.
Miss P doesn’t agree. She says the salesman misled her. She says she wasn’t given a copy 
of the agreement – and thought she was making repayments. She wants Creation to change 
the agreement to allow her a further interest free year to pay. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P says she’s very unhappy with the service she was given in store. But, under section 
75, Creation will only be jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the supplier. This doesn’t extend to holding the finance company responsible for all of the 
supplier’s actions – including the poor service given. 
Miss P says she realised quite quickly that what she’d been told by the salesman wasn’t the 
same as what was written on the agreement. I appreciate she asked him to check the details 
with his manager. And, I can understand that after he did this, she was more confident about 
what she was told. But, I can’t ignore the fact that she signed a written agreement that set 
out very different terms and conditions. And, in signing that agreement, Miss P indicated that 
she’d read and understood that she’d be bound by it.
Ref: DRN6997362
2
I’ve considered the agreement, which is a short document. There’s a lot of small print. But, 
the repayment terms are set out at the top. And, I think these are very clear. The agreement 
is a “buy now, pay later” agreement for 12 months. As the adjudicator said, if the full amount 
isn’t paid in that time, the loan will be repayable with interest, over 36 months. Miss P herself 
says she noted there’s not a 24 month repayment term. She says she was told to ignore 
what was written on the agreement – and she chose to do so. I know she says she didn’t 
understand the agreement. I appreciate Miss P might have been influenced by what the 
salesman said. But, from reading her complaint, I’m satisfied she was in a position to make 
an informed choice about what she was agreeing to. 
Miss P says a further indication that she thought the loan was over 24 months was that she 
thought she’d already started making repayments. She says she checked her bank account 
and saw payments coming out each month, which she thought were for the loan. I haven’t 
seen Miss P’s bank statements. I think it’s reasonable to assume, if Miss P thought she had 
24 months to repay in order to avoid being charged any interest, she’d have made sure the 
monthly payments were going towards the computer.
Taking all things into account, I’m not persuaded that the agreement was misrepresented. 
Following the adjudicator’s involvement, Creation has agreed to pay Miss P £100 for the 
delay in dealing with her complaint. I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is Creation Consumer Finance Limited should pay Miss P £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2016.
Loucia Kyprianou
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6997362
