K821x#14
complaint
Mrs F complains that the furniture she bought using finance provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (the business) is not of satisfactory quality.
 
background
In November 2013, Mrs F entered into a two year loan agreement with the business to buy 
furniture. The furniture was delivered in December 2013. In October 2014, she complained 
to the retailer that sold her the furniture saying that the fabric was excessively worn. She 
then complained to the business.
The retailer had an independent inspection carried out which said that the nature of the 
fabric was such that it gave different appearances when brushed one way or the other. It 
said that the difference in appearance across Mrs F’s furniture was not due to a 
manufacturing fault. Based on this report the business did not uphold Mrs F’s complaint.
Mrs F did not agree with the findings of the independent report and had her own 
independent inspection carried out. This report said that the fabric did not conform to the rub 
test. It said that the fabric had no pile and that this could only be rectified by replacing the 
cushion covers or the furniture. The report also said that the fabric should not have shown 
this level of wear in the time Mrs F had had the furniture.   
The adjudicator was persuaded by the information in the report carried out for Mrs F and 
because of this concluded that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality. He said the 
business should collect the furniture, cancel the agreement and refund all Mrs F’s payments.
The business said that the retailer could carry out a rub test on the fabric to establish 
whether there was an issue.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Independent reports have been carried out for both the retailer and Mrs F. These have come 
to different conclusions. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
I understand that the independent inspection carried out for the retailer did not find any 
manufacturing fault. The retailer wrote to Mrs F on the basis of this report saying that the 
difference in the appearance of her furniture was due to how the fabric was brushed. While I 
understand the comments in the report, I find it more likely than not that had the appearance 
of the fabric been corrected by brushing it in a different direction, Mrs F would not have had 
another independent inspection carried out.
The report carried out for Mrs F said that the fabric had worn and that this could be seen in 
the different areas of the furniture. It said that the furniture should not have displayed this 
level of wear in such a short time. It also said that the fabric did not conform to a rub test. 
Based on this, I find it more likely than not that the damage to the furniture was not down to 
normal wear and tear.
Ref: DRN6452424
2
The business has offered to have a rub test carried out, however based on the information 
provided so far by the experts, I do not find this is necessary.
Overall, I find that the furniture Mrs F bought using a loan provided by the business was not 
of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1.
cancel the agreement and collect the furniture at no cost to Mrs F;
2.
refund the £50 deposit;
3.
refund all monthly payments made to date;
4.
refund £150 for the cost of independent report paid on 31 May 2015; and
5.
pay 8% simple interest per annum on points 2), 3) and 4) above, from the date Mrs F 
made each payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2015.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6452424
