K821x#12
complaint
Mr F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has continued to require 
payments from him under a fixed sum loan agreement for an alarm system. The company 
providing maintenance and monitoring for the alarm stopped trading in 2011.
Mr F is represented by a local advice centre.
background
In February 2011 Mr F took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for the provision of 
an alarm system. This included monitoring and maintenance of the alarm. In 2011, the 
provider stopped trading. Mr F told Creation that he should no longer pay any monthly 
instalments under the agreement. Creation informed Mr F that they were finding another 
company who would continue to maintain and monitor the alarm. 
By the end of 2012, Creation told Mr F that another company could not undertake the 
servicing or monitoring. By the end of 2013 Creation informed Mr F that his agreement did 
not include any sum for the maintenance and monitoring and he was therefore liable for the 
remainder of the loan.
Mr F had sought help from a local advice centre who then brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service. Our adjudicator told Creation that he considered the order details 
showed that the total amount payable included an amount for the servicing and monitoring of 
the alarm system. Therefore under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Creation 
should cancel the finance agreement, refund any payments made since March 2011 along 
with 8% interest and remove any negative information from Mr F’s credit record. In addition 
he asked Creation to pay Mr F £200 for the frustration he had suffered in the time taken to 
resolve this case. Creation has asked an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that, under a very specific set of 
circumstances, a consumer may seek to recover money paid under a contract with a 
supplier from his or her loan provider. There can only be a valid claim under section 75, 
however, if payment was made under what is known as a ‘debtor-creditor-supplier’ 
agreement and if it can be shown that the supplier has breached or misrepresented the 
contract. 
The debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement is not in dispute in this case so I shall consider 
whether a misrepresentation or breach of contract took place. Mr F’s representative has 
claimed there is a breach of contract.
There is no dispute that the original supplier of the alarm system, including a five year 
maintenance and monitoring contract, ceased trading in March 2011: just two years after 
Mr F took out the fixed sum loan.
Creation provided the service with a copy of the loan agreement which showed that Mr F 
took out a loan for £3,750 for an “alarm system and installation”. The total amount payable 
Ref: DRN6509313
2
over a ten year period was £8,291.20. They have pointed out Mr F’s agreement did not 
include any reference to maintenance and monitoring and therefore they have no liability 
under section 75. I do not agree.
Creation is aware that we look at cases on an individual basis and review all the supporting 
material, including invoices and supplier information in addition to the loan agreement. 
Mr F’s order from the alarm suppliers, dated February 2009, states clearly that the 
specification included a “5 yr maintenance and monitoring package”. I have noted what 
Creation says that the provision of this service is noted as free. Again I disagree with them. 
Whilst the “set-up” is free, it states that the total package price is £3,850. I am satisfied that 
this price includes the package for maintenance and monitoring. Therefore I am in no doubt 
that a breach of contract took place when the supplier was unable to provide the 
maintenance and monitoring package, and therefore Creation is liable under section 75.
As I am satisfied that Creation is liable for the breach of contract, I believe that they should 
now provide fair and reasonable redress. The provision of maintenance and monitoring was 
central to Mr F having an alarm system in the first place and his actions to have the alarm 
subsequently removed support this. I therefore consider it fair that F’s fixed-sum loan 
agreement is cancelled and all further payments waived. Any payments taken from Mr F 
since 3 March 2011 are to be refunded, and 8% interest from the date of those payments 
should also be paid to Mr F. In addition, Creation should ensure that there is no negative 
information on Mr F’s credit record relating to this loan.
Our adjudicator was concerned by Creation’s handling of Mr F’s complaint. I agree with his 
view. Over a three year period, Creation put obstacles in the way of resolving this case. 
They started off by appearing to accept liability and attempting to provide an alternative 
supplier. This did not happen. They then disputed that monitoring was included in the 
package price when there was evidence to show otherwise. This has caused considerable 
inconvenience to Mr F who has had a very frustrating experience dealing with Creation for 
more than three years. I consider it fair and reasonable that they pay Mr F £400 for this 
inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold Mr F’s complaint against 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited and instruct them to take the following actions in full 
and final settlement:

Cancel Mr F’s fixed sum loan agreement with immediate effect, ensuring that any 
future liability is waived;

Refund Mr F any monthly payments he has made under this agreement since 
3 March 2011;

Pay interest of 8% simple on those monthly amounts from the date of the debit from 
Mr F’s account to the settlement date; 

Ensure that no negative information relating to this agreement remains on Mr F’s 
credit record; and

pay a further £400 for the inconvenience caused.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509313
