K821x#12
complaint
Mr J complains that he has been charged interest on a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
Mr J entered into a BNPL agreement to borrow £1,400 towards a household purchase. The 
agreement said that if he repaid this by 30 December 2011 he would not pay interest. He 
made a payment to his account of £700 in August 2011 and says he sent a cheque of £700 
in December 2011. This did not credit his account until 3 January 2012 and direct debits 
started of £73.57 per month. He did not notice these until he missed a direct debit payment 
and received calls about this in February 2013.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied on 
balance that Mr J had sent the payment on time. He provided evidence that a cheque was 
drawn on 8 December 2011. She considered it unfair that he be charged interest. She 
recommended that all payments over £1,400 that he made be backdated with simple interest 
of 8% per annum and any related adverse information removed from his credit file.
Creation Consumer Finance did not agree. It said that Mr J would have been aware that the 
due date was over a holiday period and that there was no evidence that the cheque had 
been sent before 30 December 2011. It said that Mr J had signed the terms and conditions 
and had been making the payments since January 2012. It increased its original offer to 
refund part of the interest and said that it would clear the outstanding balance on the account 
of £530.68.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that the initial payments Mr J made were by third party cheque drawn on the 
financial business where he held savings. I see no reason why he would not have sent the 
cheque in December 2011 promptly to Creation Consumer Finance as he clearly did in 
August 2011. I accept that he had no intention of taking the extended finance and he had 
funds to repay this debt. I am not able to explain why the payment was not processed to his 
account in time. I note that this was a holiday period and that, for example, the effects of this 
seemed to delay the application of his first direct debit payment. This was also due 
according to the agreement on 30 December 2011 but was applied to his account on 3 
January 2012.
For these reasons I do not consider that Mr J should pay any more to Creation Consumer 
Finance than the original amount he borrowed of £1,400.
my final decision
In light of the above my decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement 
Ref: DRN6292466
2
I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1) Refund to Mr J all payments he has made in excess of his original borrowing of 
£1,400.
2) Pay Mr J simple interest of 8% on each payment refunded under 1) from the date it 
was made until the date of settlement.
3) Remove any adverse credit information from Mr J’s credit record relating to this 
borrowing.
If Creation Consumer Finance considers that it has to deduct tax from the interest element of 
my award, it should send Mr J a tax deduction certificate when making payment. Mr J can 
then use that certificate to reclaim tax, if he is entitled to do so.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6292466
