K822x
complaint
Mr D complains that his direct debit to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) was 
cancelled without his consent.
background 
Mr D brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response’s he got from both 
Creation and his bank – who for ease of reference I’ll refer to as “B” - from which the direct 
debit was paid. Both said it was the other who cancelled the direct debit. Mr D wanted to find 
out who was responsible for the cancellation and to be compensated for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Our investigator found when Mr D initially moved his direct debit to B following a current 
account switch Creation shouldn’t have amended the direct debit details and because this 
was done two direct debit’s were in place. This caused issues when one of them became 
dormant and both were cancelled which resulted in Mr D missing his monthly payment with 
Creation. She thought as Creation told Mr D they hadn’t made an error he’d had to raise a 
complaint with B. And because both businesses said they hadn’t made an error Mr D had no 
choice but to bring both complaints to this service causing further inconvenience. She 
recommended that Creation pay Mr D £100 compensation to apologise for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Mr D accepted the investigators view but Creation didn’t. They said they didn't choose to set 
up a new direct debit altogether, but followed the usual process of amending a mandate.
Creation said they received the mandate amendment request, completed the amendment, 
provided a new reference for the direct debit mandate and the old mandate remained on the 
direct debit list. They said the reference on the mandate changes every time there’s an 
amendment, which is why it changed from reference ending 4175 to the one ending 0541. 
They said if a customer cancels even one of the older references, this cancels the entire 
mandate, resulting in the mandate being cancelled. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There’s not a great deal I can add to what the adjudicator’s already told the parties in her 
view. I think she’s covered most points quite clearly and agree with her analysis and 
findings. 
After the adjudicator issued her view Creation confirmed that they did send a new instruction 
to the bank when requesting a change in bank details. It seems to me the generation of 
another direct debit reference by Creation ending 0541 - instead of using the existing details 
ending 4175 and just amending their records to reflect the new sort code and account 
number - has, ultimately, resulted in the cancellation some 14 months later of both the 
original direct debit and the active new one ending 0541 created in February 2016. 
As another direct debit reference was generated by Creation the older direct debit reference 
wasn’t in use after February 2016. So by April 2018 it had been inactive for over 13 months - 
which is the time after which a direct debit will become dormant and the instruction cancelled 
under the direct debit scheme. Creation told us if an account cancels even one of the older 
Ref: DRN6192500
2
direct debit references then this will cancel the entire mandate. And, from everything I’ve 
seen, that’s what appears to have happened here.
I can see this has put Mr D to some inconvenience. I think the compensation suggested by 
the adjudicator of £100 is a fair and reasonable award in the all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr D £100 compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2019.
Annabel O’Sullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6192500
