K821x#12
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) recorded incorrect 
information on his credit file which caused him financial loss.
background
Mr C’s fixed sum loan agreement was in arrears. Creation said it sent him a default notice in 
2010, and when the debt was not paid, defaulted his account. Mr C said he did not receive 
this. He said that it was only after he settled his debt in 2012 that Creation recorded 
information on his credit file about the default. He also said that it failed to update his credit 
history to show the account was settled. He complains that this caused him financial loss. He 
has been unable to obtain credit, or an affordable mortgage.
The adjudicator concluded that it could not be shown that more likely than not Mr C received 
the default notice. She recommended that the complaint should be upheld and Creation 
should pay Mr C £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. She also 
said Creation should amend his credit history to remove details of the default notice.
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s recommendation. Mr C did not. He said, in summary, 
that £50 compensation was inadequate taking into account the impact this had had on his 
life.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Creation has updated Mr C’s credit history to remove details of the default. The issue left to 
be determined, therefore, is whether £50 compensation is adequate to compensate Mr C for 
any loss.
I am not persuaded that Creation should be held responsible for Mr C not being able to 
secure credit, or an affordable mortgage. Before details of the default were added, his credit 
history showed his account was in arrears. This information alone, more likely than not, 
would have impacted on his ability to obtain credit. I do not agree that it can be shown that 
Creation’s actions have directly caused him any financial loss.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C but, I agree with the adjudicator that £50 compensation is fair 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. In my view, it took Creation 
longer than it should have to remove the information about the default. However, I consider 
that this award is in line with the general level of awards made by this service for complaints 
like this.
Ref: DRN6769122
2
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr C’s complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr C £50 for the distress and inconvenience.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6769122
