K821x#15
complaint
Miss G complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (“PPI”) by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) when she took out a loan to buy furniture.
background
Miss G took out a loan with Creation in 2005 to buy a sofa. The loan was over 48 months 
with a deferred payment period for the first 12 months. After the deferral period Miss G 
began to make repayments on the loan and the PPI came into effect for the remaining 36 
months of the loan.
The PPI would’ve covered Miss G’s repayments for up to 12 months at a time if she’d had to 
go into hospital for an extended period.  It also would’ve paid £2000 if Miss G had lost the 
use of a limb or eye, and would’ve paid off the outstanding balance of the loan if Miss G 
died.
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and Miss G paid interest on it.
Miss G complains that she wasn’t told anything about the PPI and that it was very 
expensive.
The adjudicator thought that Miss G’s complaint should be upheld. Creation disagrees, so 
Miss G’s complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account when deciding this 
case.
I’m upholding Miss G’s complaint. I’ll explain why.
Creation say that they didn’t recommend PPI to Miss G, they just gave her enough 
information so she could decide for herself if she wanted it. So Creation had a duty to make 
sure this information was clear. I don’t think they made the costs clear enough to Miss G. 
And as this was a very expensive policy with very limited benefits I think this was an 
important failing.
The credit agreement Miss G signed did have the cost of the PPI on it, but the interest 
charged on it wasn’t set out separately here. Instead it was set out as part of a ‘Statement of 
Price’ document. But this statement of price was at the end of several pages of the policy 
summary and I don’t think Miss G would’ve thought to look here for information which more 
reasonably should’ve been included in the credit agreement.
In addition, Miss G was deferring payment of the loan for 12 months. During that time 
interest would’ve accrued on the PPI premium. But I can’t see how Creation explained this to 
Miss G.
If Creation had made the true costs, including interest payable, clearer I don’t think Miss G 
would’ve taken the policy. The premium including interest was about 77% of the basic price 
Ref: DRN6563179
2
of the furniture. Miss G was borrowing a relatively small sum and I don’t think she’d have 
wanted to protect that if she’d properly understood what it would cost.
putting things right
Miss G borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Miss G needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Miss G the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss G paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Miss G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I’m upholding Miss G’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Limited to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2015.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563179
