K822x
complaint
Mr L complains that the performance of solar panels he bought with a loan from Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited was mis-represented and he’s struggling to afford repayments 
because it doesn’t provide the returns he was promised.  
background 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 September 2015 – a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I considered Creation should remove 
the solar panels, cancel the loan and give Mr L a refund. 
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. And Creation says the solar panels have been 
removed and it’s taking steps to comply with the rest of my provisional decision, so I see no 
reason to depart from that decision. 
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to 
1.
Arrange for the removal of Mr L’s solar panel installation at no cost to him and restore 
his property to the state it was in before the system was installed;
2.
Cancel Mr L’s loan agreement;
3.
Refund all of the loan repayments Mr L has made, after deducting the amount he 
received as income, plus interest calculated at 8% a year from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement; and
4.
Remove any information about the loan from Mr L’s credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs may require Creation to take off tax from the interest paid. Creation 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2015.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776249
2
                                                provisional decision 
complaint
Mr L complains that the performance of solar panels he bought with a loan from Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited was mis-represented and he’s struggling to afford repayments because it doesn’t 
provide the returns he was promised.  
background
In 2014 Mr L took out a loan with Creation for a solar panel system. He says the salesman told him 
the installation would “pay for itself” by generating enough income and savings to cover the £100 a 
month loan repayments. But Mr L only earned about £270 in the year after he got the panels and he 
hasn’t noticed any great electricity savings. He thought the panels would self-fund so he’s finding it 
hard to pay off the loan now. And he says Creation shouldn’t have lent him the money in the first 
place. 
Creation says Mr L was told about the potential benefits of the system - but documents he signed at 
the time made it clear those weren’t guaranteed. And Mr L could have cancelled if he was unhappy 
after he had time to consider the predicted returns. Creation says it checks if a loan is affordable 
using industry standards. It took Mr L’s income and credit history into account, and he met the 
relevant criteria, so the loan wasn’t unaffordable.  
Our adjudicator considers it’s impossible to know for certain what was discussed at the time, so more 
weight should be attached to what was put in writing. And the documents say the estimated benefits 
aren’t guaranteed, so he couldn’t safely find the system was misrepresented. He wasn’t persuaded 
the loan is unaffordable. 
Mr L says he wasn’t given detailed information about the system’s performance before he signed the 
supply and loan agreements. So he relied on what the salesman told him and was misled into buying 
the installation. 
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Mr L brings his complaint under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 – which says where Mr L has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation 
against the solar panel supplier he may be able to bring it against Creation too. 
I think the crux of Mr L’s complaint is that the salesman misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel 
system by saying it would “pay for itself”. The salesman denies that. For me to be able to uphold the 
complaint, I must be satisfied a false statement was made that induced Mr L to buy the installation. 
I can’t know for certain what was said at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. And I have considered carefully what each party has said and the documents 
provided. 
Mr L and the supplier have each produced their own copy of the supplier’s contract. On the first page 
there’s a box (which takes up about a quarter of the page) headed “calculating a SAP calculation”. 
The SAP calculation gives the installation’s anticipated level of performance in the form of kilowatts 
per year - and it’s calculated according to the Government’s standard assessment procedure. 
Underneath there’s space for the consumer to initial and “confirm that I fully understand how the SAP 
calculation was arrived at”. 
Ref: DRN6776249
3
The salesman has provided a statement. He says he would have given Mr L the SAP information, as 
well as a “pay as you earn” breakdown of likely returns over 20 years. That breakdown is a separate 
document to the supply contract. I can see it contains Mr L’s address but it’s not signed or dated. It 
refers to a SAP calculation of 1716 kw per year. And a spreadsheet shows the system would return 
about £5,000 over the ten year loan term and about £14,000 after 20 years. 
On the supplier’s copy of the contract the SAP calculation been completed and it estimates the panels 
will produce 1716 kw a year. Mr L’s initials have been inserted alongside the calculation. And, on the 
next page, the contract is dated 24 February 2014 (the same date as the loan) and signed by both 
parties. 
Mr L accepts he signed both the loan and supply agreements. But he says the salesman didn’t give 
him the SAP calculation or the “pay as you earn” schedule beforehand. So he relied on the 
salesman’s assurance that the system would produce enough income and savings to “pay for itself”. 
His copy of the supply contract is signed but not dated, the SAP calculation box is blank and it’s not 
initialled. 
Mr L is in his seventies, he experiences poor health and is on a fixed income. I have seen no 
evidence to suggest that he wanted a solar panel installation as a long term investment or because he 
was committed to renewable energy. I think it’s unlikely that Mr L would have agreed to install these 
panels and take out a ten year loan for nearly £12,000 if he wasn’t told something about the likely 
benefits of the system. But, given his particular circumstances, I think it’s unlikely that Mr L would 
have gone ahead if he had seen the “pay as you earn” breakdown that says it would take about 17 
years to recoup what he spent. 
I note the consumer code produced by the Renewable Energy Association (of which the supplier is a 
member) says a written estimate of predicted performance should be provided to customers before 
the contract is signed. And, given the prominence of the SAP calculation box, and the fact that the 
customer is asked to initial it specifically, I would find it surprising if the salesman gave Mr L the 
predicted performance calculation without recording that on the relevant part of his contract. 
The salesman says he quoted for Mr L on the phone initially, basing the figures on a friend’s 
installation. But that was revised after visiting Mr L’s property, because it was suitable for 16 panels. 
Mr L’s installation only has 8 panels. Mr L thinks the salesman may have confused it with a 16 panel 
installation the same supplier provided to a relative around the same time. I’m inclined to agree. So I 
am not persuaded that the salesman’s recollection is accurate or may reasonably be relied upon here 
as a result.  
I have found Mr L’s evidence to be credible and consistent and, overall and on balance, I accept his 
account of events. I’m satisfied it’s more likely than not the salesman told Mr L this solar panel system 
would be self funding. And I don’t think Mr L would have agreed to buy the installation if he hadn’t. 
Creation refers to the customer satisfaction note Mr L signed on 8 March 2014. It predicts Mr L would 
receive a return of about £450 in the first year – made up from about £300 income from his electricity 
supplier and nearly £150 in electricity savings. The note also contains a disclaimer that says the 
system’s returns aren’t guaranteed as the performance of the panels “is impossible to predict with 
certainty”. And I can see it contains a SAP calculation – albeit the figure is marginally different to the 
one on the supplier’s documents. Creation considers Mr L had all the information he needed and 
could have cancelled at that stage - if he was concerned the figures didn’t match the salesman’s.  
There’s no dispute Mr L received and signed the customer satisfaction note. He says it was his first 
indication that the system’s returns might not be as much as the salesman said. But the panels were 
already installed by that time. And Mr L says he wasn’t unduly concerned because he thought the 
income and savings were bound to be much higher than the estimates because of the salesman’s 
assurances. So he decided to wait and see how the system performed. I’m not persuaded that was 
unreasonable in the circumstances here. 
Ref: DRN6776249
4
Mr L subsequently received nearly £270 in payments from his electricity provider over the first 12 
months. He hasn’t been able to obtain information about his electricity use in the year before he got 
the panels to compare with his use after. But, even if I were to accept that Mr L would have received 
the £150 savings estimated in the satisfaction note, his return is only about £400 - less than half the 
annual loan costs he expected the system would pay for. 
From the evidence I have seen, I’m satisfied Mr L agreed to the installation because the salesman 
misrepresented its performance by saying it would effectively be cost neutral – meaning his monthly 
loan repayments would be off-set by the return from the panels. 
I’m not persuaded that Mr L was given the SAP calculation or the “pay as you earn“ schedule as he 
should have been - before he signed the loan and supply agreements. And, given the panels were 
already installed when he got the satisfaction note, I don’t think it’s unreasonable that he didn’t try and 
cancel at that stage. So, in the circumstances overall here, I am minded to uphold this complaint. 
I consider Creation should put Mr L back into the position he would have been but for the 
misrepresentation. And I’m inclined to order Creation to arrange for the solar panel system to be 
removed and have Mr L’s property restored. It should also refund all of the loan payments he has 
made so, far less any income he has received, and pay interest on the refund at 8% a year from the 
date of payment until settlement. And remove any information about the loan from Mr L’s credit file. 
But I can see that there’s a risk of damage and certainly disruption associated with removal of the 
panels. So, it might be more practical, if Mr L is willing, to allow them to remain and for his loan to be 
recalculated. I’m inclined to suggest it would be fair for him to repay about 40% of the total amount - 
which, I think, provides Mr L with the arrangement he thought he was taking out originally and reflects 
the benefit he’s likely to receive going forward.
I invite the parties to let me have their comments on redress as well as any further evidence or 
information by 28 October 2015, after which time I will make my final decision. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint and 
require Creation Consumer Finance Limited to 

Arrange for the removal of Mr L’s solar panel installation at no cost to him and restore his 
property to the state it was in before the system was installed;

Cancel Mr L’s loan agreement;

Refund all of the loan repayments Mr L has made, after deducting the amount he has 
received as income, plus interest calculated at 8% a year from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement;

Remove any information about the loan from Mr L’s credit file. 
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6776249
