K821x#14
complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection (‘PPI’) insurance policy. 
background
In 2006 Mr E bought some furniture in a store and took out a £1,649 loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £616.12, which was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr E wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including £549.51 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan.  
Our adjudicator upheld Mr E’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr E was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr E how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr E bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr E to work 
out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the 
cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr E would expect it to be. And I can’t be sure 
it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his attention was 
on buying his goods – not on buying insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr E to understand what the policy was costing 
him.
Ref: DRN6816921
2

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr E aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay the 
loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest 
at 29.8%. This meant Mr E would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr E was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr E would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. 

I don’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of how 
much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr E’s complaint. 
fair compensation 
Mr E should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term. 
Mr E borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So he needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation should:
work out and pay Mr E the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI
add simple interest to the extra amount Mr E paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back (the rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on†)
if Mr E made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what the 
consumer got from what’s due to them.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr E’s complaint is upheld and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay Mr E fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2014.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6816921
