K821x#14
complaint
Mrs H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, will not 
cancel her loan agreement and refund her repayments for a solar panel system which she 
believes was mis-sold to her. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a family member, 
Mr H. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mrs H.
background
Mrs H bought solar panels from a third party company, V, with finance provided by a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation in September 2014. The panels were installed in October 
2014. Mrs H said that the solar panel system was misrepresented to her by V. She said that 
its salesman told her on the phone when he cold called her, and during his visit to her house, 
that the solar panel system was self funding. Mrs H said that the salesman said that the 
value of her loan repayments would be covered by the rebate from the grid, and that this 
was likely to be high enough so that she could turn a small profit. She said that this was the 
deciding factor on which she based her decision to buy the system.
Mrs H signed a loan agreement with Creation under which she would pay £92.17 per month 
for ten years. Mrs H also said that she could suffer financial hardship if the system did not 
pay for itself.
Mrs H complained to Creation at the beginning of December 2014 that the system was mis-
sold to her, and she wanted her agreement cancelled. She realised that the cost of her 
energy together with her loan repayments had trebled her energy costs, and if she had 
known this, she wouldn’t have bought the system.
The adjudicator concluded that the performance of the solar panels, along with the estimated 
savings that Mrs H would make, were misrepresented. He said that the only reason Mrs H 
agreed to buy the solar panels was because she was informed that she would receive a 
profit based on the performance of the solar panels and the energy saved. Whilst he 
acknowledged that the calculations provided to Mrs H were estimates, he noted that Mrs H 
hadn’t received anything near the estimates provided. He recommended that Creation 
arrange for the system panels to be removed at its cost, that the loan agreement is cancelled 
and the loan repayments be reimbursed to Mrs H with interest at 8% paid from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Creation disagreed and replied to say, in summary, that cancellation of the loan agreement 
was not warranted as Mrs H had proceeded with her purchase on the basis of figures which 
were provided as estimates. She had signed a form which said that the system performance 
was not guaranteed. It also said that Mrs H should wait until a year had elapsed as she was 
basing her views on the figure available for the winter months when there was less sun.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN6998746
2
I consider that the crux of this complaint is whether a misrepresentation had been made to 
Mrs H, and whether Mrs H had entered into the loan agreement because of that information.
I cannot be certain what was discussed between the sales representative and Mrs H before 
she entered into the agreement for the solar panels. But I note that she said that she was 
cold called by V’s salesman and told on the phone that the panels would pay for themselves. 
She said that she was also told this when he visited her and she only signed up in reliance 
on this.
Creation refers to a document headed “Customer satisfaction note” which Mrs H signed on 
25 September 2014. This said that the performance of the system was impossible to predict 
with certainty and that the estimate was given for guidance. It said that the figures were 
illustrative and actual savings varied. It then said that the performance expectations for the 
first year were an income of £343.74 and energy savings of £143.60, a total of £487.34. But 
the form does not refer to the annual loan repayments of £1,100 which Mrs H would have to 
pay to achieve such savings. So, I consider that the reference to annual savings on the form 
was misleading without also mentioning the loan repayments. By taking these into account, 
Mrs H is substantially worse off. As the adjudicator also noted, on the basis of V’s 
projections, it will take Mrs H around 20 years to earn the amount she borrowed. If this had 
also been explained to Mrs H at the point of sale, I am persuaded that she would not have 
gone ahead.
I also note that Creation felt that Mrs H should wait until she had seen the figures for a year. 
But, I can see that by waiting until she had received FIT payments for a year, she would be 
worse off financially than prior to her purchase because of the need to make her loan 
repayments. I especially note that Mrs H was concerned that the loan repayments would 
cause her financial difficulty if the loan did not pay for itself.
I find Mrs H’s evidence to be plausible and credible, and I am persuaded by what she tells 
us. Moreover, her recollections and actions are consistent, and she raised the issues with 
Creation just over two months after installation.
So, on balance, and after very careful consideration, overall I am persuaded that the system 
was mis-sold to Mrs H, and that she wouldn’t have gone ahead if she had known that the 
solar panel system wouldn’t pay for itself. I consider that Creation should arrange for the 
removal of the solar panel system at no cost to Mrs H, and to restore Mrs H’s property to its 
original state. It should also put Mrs H back into the position she would have been in by 
cancelling the loan and refunding to Mrs H the difference between the loan repayments she 
has made and the FIT income payments she has received. It should also pay Mrs H interest 
on her repayments at 8% simple per annum from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement. It should also remove any information about the agreement from Mrs H’s credit 
file.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, 
I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, to:-
1. Arrange at its cost for the removal of the solar panel system and the return of Mrs H’s 
property to the state it was in before the panels were installed. This means, for example, 
replacing any roof tiles rather than just repairing them;
Ref: DRN6998746
3
2. Cancel Mrs H’s loan agreement;
3. Refund to Mrs H all the repayments she has made, after deducting the amounts she has 
received as income;
4. Interest should be calculated and paid to Mrs H on the payments refunded at 8% simple 
per annum from the date of each payment to the date of settlement; and
5. Remove any information about the agreement from Mrs H’s credit file.
If Creation considers it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Mrs H a tax deduction certificate when it pays her. She can use that certificate to try to 
reclaim the tax, if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2015.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6998746
