K822x
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (”the Act”).
Background 
Mr S was contacted by a company that sold and installed solar panel systems. Following a 
subsequent sales meeting, Mr S agreed to enter into a contract with the company for it to 
supply and install a solar panel system at his home. To pay for this, he also agreed to enter 
into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr S made a claim under section 75 of the Act via his representative. The representative set 
out that the solar panel company had made a number of representations to Mr S that had 
turned out to be not true. These included being told that his solar panels would be “self-
funded” and come at no cost to him. And it was those representations that induced Mr S to 
enter into the contract and the associated finance with Creation. 
In its final response letter, Creation offered to reduce the total amount payable under the finance 
agreement by 25%. Mr S didn’t accept this offer and referred his complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to put things right. It said it had calculated 
the potential savings and income to Mr S over the term of the loan. It offered to restructure 
the loan so Mr S would pay no more than this. In effect, this would make the system cost 
neutral and aimed to make sure that Mr S didn’t suffer a financial loss due to any 
misrepresentation made by the solar panel installer. This figure was approximately £3,900.
Mr S, via his representative, accepted the offer from Creation. When he received the redress 
from Creation, it was less than he was expecting and queried this with our service. It 
transpired that an error had been made when the offer amount was provided to Mr S.
Mr S, via his representative, asked for Creation to pay him the higher offer he thought he would 
be receiving. Creation didn’t agree to this, so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has said that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Creation or Mr S dispute the fact that the 
solar panel were misrepresented and as a result this decision will deal with what I consider 
to be fair compensation.
It’s not in dispute that Mr S was provided with an amount higher than the offer of £3,900 that 
Creation had made to settle his complaint. Because of this, Mr S is of the opinion that Creation 
should pay him the amount he was incorrectly provided with as this is what he accepted.
Ref: DRN6232415
2
I’ve thought carefully on this point. And having done so, I don’t agree that Creation should 
pay Mr S the amount that he was incorrectly given. In its simplest, the amount that was 
accepted by Mr S wasn’t the amount that was on offer from Creation. And whilst I appreciate 
that he will have been disappointed to have received a lower amount, I don’t think it would 
be fair or reasonable of me to require Creation to pay him the higher, or incorrect, figure.
I say this as Creation is satisfied that the benefits of the solar panel system were 
misrepresented to Mr S and that he was led to believe that his solar panel system would be 
entirely self-funding. On that basis it has calculated the potential savings and income that he 
could expect to receive from his solar panel system over the 10 year term of the loan. The 
calculation has been shared with Mr S’s representative. And the amount it issued to Mr S 
ensures that he doesn’t suffer a financial loss due to the misrepresentation and aims to make 
his system cost neutral over the 10 year loan term, which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
If I were to tell Creation to pay Mr S the incorrect amount, I’m of the view that this would 
place him in a better situation than he was led to believe he’d be in by the solar panel 
installer and go beyond ensuring that he doesn’t suffer a financial loss due to the 
misrepresentations that were made. And on that basis, I don’t consider that would be a fair 
and reasonable outcome.
I’ve noted that Creation, since the offer to Mr S was originally made, has changed its 
methodology to how it calculates fair compensation in these types of cases. However, the 
new methodology would result in a lower amount of compensation for Mr S, which I wouldn’t 
consider to be fair in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed not to receive the higher figure, I’m satisfied 
that the offer Creation made to make his system self-funding, a refund of approximately 
£3,900, is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr S’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr S the original amount it offered, approximately 
£3,900, including 8% simple interest*.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN6232415
