K820x#14
complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold an energy product (‘Product A’) in March 2015 financed by a 
loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She also says that Creation shouldn’t have given 
her the loan in the first place.
background
In summary Mrs H says she was falsely led to believe that Product A would be ‘self-funding’ 
and be paid for in ‘five to six years’. She also says that she couldn’t afford the finance 
payments so Creation shouldn’t have lent to her.
Our adjudicator didn’t think that Product A was mis-sold. Or that the finance was 
unaffordable.
Mrs H disagrees. In summary, she believed the income and savings would cover the 
finance. And the savings and income from the product doesn’t cover her monthly payments. 
She also believes the product is underperforming due to the way it was fitted.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was it clear that Mrs H was financing Product A?
I think it was clear that Mrs H was signing up to fund Product A through a loan agreement. 
She signed paperwork titled ‘Fixed Sum Loan Agreement’ which said that she would have to 
pay 120 monthly repayments of £113.11. She also gave her bank details on this agreement 
so the money could be taken. 
I know that after the sale she mentioned in a call to the supplier about the money to pay for 
the finance coming from the ‘energy account’ and the advisor said ‘yes’ - which may have 
caused a bit of confusion. But overall, I think it should have been reasonably clear to Mrs H 
that she was responsible for paying for the product via the loan agreement.
should Creation have given Mrs H the loan?
It is not for me to interfere with Creation’s commercial decisions to lend. But if a decision is 
clearly unreasonable then I can try and put things right.
I have looked at what Mrs H has said about her money situation at the time of sale. And her 
bank account from the time she took out the finance. After doing so I am not sure that 
Creation made an unreasonable lending decision. It appears that, at the time of sale, Mrs H 
did have enough disposable income each month to make the monthly loan repayments.
If Mrs H is now having trouble making the repayments she should get in touch with Creation 
to discuss an affordable repayment plan going forward.
what about the savings and income Mrs H was told about?
Ref: DRN6789555
2
While I am sure the possible benefits and savings of the product were described to Mrs H, 
ultimately the sales paperwork she agreed contradicts what she says she was told. From 
these documents it is clear that the output figures are estimates and not guaranteed. And I 
can’t see where the paperwork mentions a definite timescale for making money back.
And while the product may pay for itself eventually, it isn’t clear to me that Mrs H was 
guaranteed that month on month her finance payments would be cancelled out by the 
income and savings. In fact if you look at the paperwork, it is clear that the estimated saving 
in year one (around £350) isn’t enough to cover the first year of payments detailed on the 
loan agreement. 
I also note that the possible savings were re-stated during a welcome call shortly after the 
sale. It appears Mrs H understood that these were potential savings. And that her first year 
of savings was estimated at £350.
I think that the variable performance of a system like Product A would have been reasonably 
clear to Mrs H at the time of sale. It seems she is making some income and energy savings 
from the product. And based on what I have seen I just can’t be sure she was given 
unrealistic estimates of performance. 
Mrs H has worked out how long it would take for this product to pay for itself and says this is 
a very long time. She doesn’t see any benefit in having the product. At this early stage it isn’t 
clear whether it will take as long to pay for itself as she has claimed. Or what the wider 
benefits are in terms of energy savings. And in light of the information I have, I can’t be sure 
there has been a misrepresentation here. 
I know Mrs H has indicated that the system is faulty – but based on the information provided 
right now I can’t be sure this is the case. However, if Mrs H gets some new evidence about 
this it may be something she can take forward in the future.
my final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2016.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6789555
