K822x
complaint
Mr N has complained Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t refunded the money he 
paid for solar panels. He believes he was told the solar panels would pay for themselves 
within five years.
background 
A solar panel company, P, contacted Mr N in early 2013. They told him he could have panels 
fitted on his house. They’d generate enough money to pay for themselves within five years. 
The panels were fitted. To pay for these Mr N took out a fixed-sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance. He agreed to pay them over £115 a month for ten years.
P is no longer trading. In 2016 on Mr N’s behalf a claims company, T, complained to 
Creation. They said his monthly payments exceeded what he was getting back from 
generating electricity. He was selling electricity back to his energy supplier and getting what 
are called Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) payments. He was also getting reduced electricity bills. As this 
wasn’t what T said Mr N was promised, they asked Creation to remove the panels, cancel 
the agreement and repay the money Mr N had already paid to them.
Creation said Mr N had never been given a clear promise about what he would get. They 
pointed out his contract didn’t provide any guarantee about how the panels would perform. 
However they were aware of failings in P’s activities so they offered Mr N 25% off the total 
he’d borrowed. T said Mr N didn’t want to accept this and brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator reviewed the evidence and discussed the purchase of the solar panels with 
Mr N’s wife. Our adjudicator felt there were no figures provided in the contract – as would 
often be seen – so it was fair Mr N relied on the paperwork left with him. This showed he’d 
earn £1,470 from his FIT payments in the first year, whereas he received £527. She asked 
Creation to remove the panels, make good any damage, cancel the credit agreement and 
repay what Mr N had already paid (minus his FIT payments and electricity bill reductions).
Creation didn’t believe this was fair. They asked an ombudsman to make a decision on 
Mr N’s complaint. 
I completed a provisional decision on 29 November 2016. I wasn’t convinced there was 
enough evidence to show the panels had been mis-sold. All the contractual evidence clearly 
indicated there were no guarantees. I also felt Creation’s offer to reduce the cost of Mr N’s 
loan agreement by 25% was fair.
I’ve had responses from both T, on Mr N’s behalf, and Creation. T has said:

Mr and Mrs N based their decision to buy the panels on the information given to them 
verbally and contained within the one-page illustration; and

P were found to break the Renewable Energy Consumer Code on numerous 
occasions.
Creation stated their preferred option of reducing the length of the agreement was the 
fairest.
I now have all I need to complete the final decision on this case.
Ref: DRN6224625
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don’t doubt Mr N when his wife told us they expected the solar panels would pay for 
themselves within five years and this attracted them to getting the panels installed. But I can 
see from the paperwork he signed, any figures were not guaranteed. In fact the contract 
clearly states any estimates are just an illustration and don’t form part of the contract.
I think T felt I was criticising Mr N when I noted the contract didn’t contain any figures. I didn’t 
mean to suggest this. In fact it was P at fault not completing the contract with estimated 
savings. But in any case I don’t believe this matters. If P had completed the contract, they’d 
have used the figures from the illustration they gave Mr N along with an idea of potential 
kWh of electricity to be generated. But the main thing is the contract clearly states these are 
estimates and not a guarantee. I think it’s fair to expect Mr N to have read the contract – it’s 
neither long nor complicated. Particularly as Mr N was keen on the financial savings he’d get 
from the panels.
I appreciate Mr N thought he was being told the solar panels would pay for themselves but I 
don’t believe it was fair for him to have relied upon this information. I say this because the 
contract contradicts this. Overall I don’t think Mr N was guaranteed any return on his panels.
Mr N did get an installation certificate which confirmed what electricity his panels would 
generate. But this was after his panels were installed so couldn’t fairly be said to contribute 
to his decision to buy the panels.  
I did wonder why if the savings were so important to him; Mr N didn’t take action earlier. He 
knew by early 2014 he wasn’t getting enough in FIT payments to cover his annual payments 
to Creation. I accept T’s view it took Mr N some time to figure out who he could complain to. 
Mr N has also said he was pressurised into buying these panels and wasn’t given 
cancellation rights. But in fact there are cancellation rights written into his terms and 
conditions so I don’t believe this is the case.  
Creation has pointed out Mr N’s installation certificate said the panels would generate 
2552 kWh. His FIT payments show his panels generated more than this in the first year.
Our role as an informal dispute resolution service is to decide whether the business has 
acted fairly and the resolution they’ve offered is fair and reasonable. In this case, Creation 
has offered to reduce the costs of Mr N’s loan agreement by 25%. This works out as a total 
of £4,894.85. I believe this is a fair resolution and allows him to keep the solar panels which 
will continue to generate electricity. As well as that Creation remain obliged to offer the same 
guarantees as provided by P for the long-term care of his panels.
Creation has offered to reduce the length of Mr N’s credit agreement which would now finish 
after he made his monthly payment in August 2019. I did ask T whether Mr N felt the 
alternative – to pay less per month but to keep the length of the agreement the same – was 
better. They didn’t respond. Overall I agree it’s fair Creation manage the redress as they 
wish.
Ref: DRN6224625
3
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my final decision is to instruct Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to reduce the costs of Mr N’s loan agreement by 25% as a way of making things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2017.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6224625
