K821x#15
complaint
Ms B complains that goods she purchased through a fixed sum loan financed by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were misrepresented and not of satisfactory quality. She 
wants to terminate the agreement and return the goods.
background
Ms B tells us that she ordered a two-seater sofa and chair from a retailer I’ll refer to as “D”. 
She says she visited D’s premises and that she was shown samples of similar products - but 
not always the same - as those she ordered. She states she was given certain assurances. 
These amounted to there being no substantial difference in what she could expect from the 
products she ordered and that which she’d seen or sampled in store. But she said that when 
the goods were delivered she found there were significant variations. She said the arm rests 
of the chair were square and hard. And the seat was harder and higher than the one in store. 
And she refers to the colour of the two items not being the same - even though they were 
supposed to match.
Creation told us that the goods had been inspected but no faults had been found. But it said 
D had offered to replace the goods but with a £500 charge which Ms B had declined to 
accept. It noted the chair was for orthopaedic support and therefore would be harder than 
normal items. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms B had 
provided testimony of what she’d been told in store. And she said Creation hadn’t provided 
any information about this. She felt Ms B had consistently said the sales assistant had 
shown her the power recliner chair in the Supreme range as the rise and tilt chair wasn’t 
available. And that it had been explained to her (Ms B) that the rise and tilt chair would be 
exactly the same as this in terms of style and comfort, just with a higher back. Our 
adjudicator said she’d viewed the chair and power recliner in this range online and thought 
there were more differences than just the height of the back. And she felt Ms B had been 
given inaccurate information. She thought Ms B should be able to reject the goods and end 
the agreement.
Creation didn’t agree with this outcome. It said there was nothing to show Ms B’s recollection 
of the sale was correct. As it’s not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman’s 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B’s complaint is brought against Creation and so it’s the actions of Creation which I’m 
looking at. I’m not deciding on the merits of any underlying claim which Ms B might have 
against D. Although I will consider this aspect in deciding if Creation has treated Ms B fairly 
and investigated her complaint properly. And where information is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory - as some of it is here - I’m required to reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities.
Ref: DRN6380490
2
Ms B’s complaint is brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Whilst I don’t 
apply the law - directly - I do take it into account. Briefly summarised, section 75 says if 
there’s been a misrepresentation and/or a breach of contract by the supplier (D) of the 
goods, a consumer who used certain types of credit to pay for the goods has a “like” claim 
against the supplier of finance (Creation) as they would have against the supplier. 
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an 
agreement and incur a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. And a breach of contract 
might occur if the goods supplied weren’t of satisfactory quality; or not as described or 
matching a sample examined by the consumer. 
I think Ms B’s complaint can be fairly summarised as comprising separate elements, each of 
which must be viewed individually. She’s alleging the rise and tilt chair was misrepresented 
in terms of style and comfort and also that it didn’t match a description she’d been given in 
D’s store. She’s further claiming that the sofa was uneven and didn’t stay in the same floor 
position when she returned it to upright from the recline position.
I can see that the items were subject of an inspection in May 2019, carried out by a service 
manager from D. He didn’t find any manufacturing faults with the furniture. But he did note 
that Ms B was complaining about the chair being uncomfortable and totally different to that in 
store. And that she felt she’d been mis-sold the items.
This inspection - albeit not independent - confirms there were no faults with the goods (apart 
from some marks which were cleaned off). And in the absence of anything else to show they 
weren’t of satisfactory quality at the time of supply I don’t think Ms B would be entitled to 
reject the goods on this basis.
But that only deals with one part of the complaint and still leaves the issue of whether there 
was a misrepresentation and/or the goods didn’t match the description she’d been given.
I’m aware that Ms B suggests the two items are of different colour - or at least she says they 
appear so. From the photographs I’ve seen I’m not able to conclude that there’s any material 
difference and the invoice indicates that the same colour was ordered in each case. So I 
can’t say that the items delivered were different in colour to those ordered. And so I don’t 
think any misrepresentation or breach of contract occurred in this respect.
Where I think there’s plausible evidence of a misrepresentation is in the differences between 
the items which Ms B was shown in store and those which were delivered. I fully accept that 
part of the complaint is about different levels of comfort. And comfort is a subjective issue 
which makes drawing a comparison between different items more difficult. But there are 
several facts from which I think it’s fair to draw inferences.
Ms B took the time to visit the store when she could’ve simply ordered the goods online. This 
suggests she was being very careful to ensure she got exactly the items she wished. I also 
note that the cost price of the items is about £3,000 so it can be considered a significant 
purchase. This again makes it all the more likely Ms B would be very specific about her 
requirements. I understand Ms B suffered an injury in an accident some years ago and so 
it’s particularly important to her that an individual item of furniture suits her particular needs.
She sampled goods in store and she’s confirmed that the sofa supplied matched that she’d 
been shown. Although she later complains that there’s a defect with its mode of operation. 
Ref: DRN6380490
3
But I understand the rise and tilt chair Ms B ordered wasn’t available for her to try out and so 
it seems she was shown a similar but not identical model. 
Ms B has provided testimony - which I accept - that she was assured the regular power 
recliner which she was shown, was the same as the rise and tilt chair other than for a slightly 
higher back. I find this to be persuasive as I’m sure Ms B wouldn’t have agreed to purchase 
the item without such an assurance. And as neither Creation nor D has been able to provide 
testimony to contradict this I’m entitled to rely on what Ms B has told me. Creation has 
advised that neither it nor D has any records of what Ms B was told and that such notes are 
never kept as customers might not feel comfortable being recorded in store. It’s not for me to 
tell a business what processes it should follow. But if a business chooses not to keep any 
such record - particularly in respect of relatively costly items which are being sold to a 
customer who has identified their specific requirements - that’s not a reason for not 
accepting the customer’s recollection when that appears plausible.
I think it’s also relevant that Ms B made her complaint within two days of the delivery of 
these items. She first notified D before following this up with Creation. It seems clear that D 
made no serious attempt to address Ms B’s concerns as whilst it offered to replace the chair 
it also required £500 to do so. And I’ve seen nothing to suggest that it made any meaningful 
enquiry about the alleged misrepresentation.  
And I think this is where Creation also failed to consider her complaint fully and fairly. The 
notes provided by Creation show it concentrated on the issue of satisfactory quality. As far 
as I can see the only reference to any enquiry regarding the possibility of a 
misrepresentation is in a case note dated 15 May 2019. This indicates only that D informed 
Creation that Ms B wouldn’t be told the regular power recliner and rise and tilt chair would be 
the same. It’s accepted within this note that there are differences in the items. But I can’t see 
the note records more than a statement of what a sales person would be expected to say. 
There’s nothing to show that any enquires were made to try to ascertain what was actually 
said. And Creation’s final response letter also appears not to address the issue of 
misrepresentation. 
I’ve already stated that I’m looking at how Creation investigated Ms B’s claim. And I think 
that by not fully addressing the issue of misrepresentation - relating to what assurances she 
was given in store - it failed to consider a material aspect of Ms B’s complaint. Had it given 
this issue proper attention I think it should’ve accepted that - on a balance of probabilities - a 
misrepresentation had occurred in respect of the rise and tilt chair.
I agree with the view of our investigator that Ms B was seeking to purchase the two items as 
a set and wouldn’t have purchased one without the other. Our usual approach is to try to put 
the consumer back to the same position which they would be in but for the 
misrepresentation. Here that means allowing Ms B to end the agreement and return both 
items as - without the misrepresentation - she wouldn’t have purchased either of them.
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m upholding this complaint.
In full and final settlement I now require Creation Consumer Finance Limited to take the 
following action:
1.
End the finance agreement with nothing further for Ms B to pay;
Ref: DRN6380490
4
2.
Refund any payments made by Ms B from start of agreement to date of termination;
3.
Arrange for the collection of the sofa and chair at no additional cost to Ms B;
4.
Upon proof of payment, refund reasonable storage charges from June 2019 to date 
of collection.
5.
Arrange to have details of the agreement removed from Ms B’s credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year, from date of payment to date of settlement, should 
be added to payments arising from items 2 and 4 above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6380490
