K821x#15
complaint
Ms P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation 
(“Creation”) dealt with her account when she was in arrears. She thinks it should’ve been 
defaulted earlier than November 2014.
background
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. She thought, by at least June 2010, Creation 
should’ve recognised Ms P was making no more that token payments towards her account. 
She thought it unfair that Ms P was now in a worse position than if she’d made no payments 
at all - as if she’d not agreed the token payments in 2009 the account would’ve defaulted 
much earlier. So the adjudicator asked Creation to remove the default, as it would no longer 
be showing on her credit file had it been applied earlier. And to pay Ms P £200 to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset the default caused. 
Ms P agreed with the findings but told us she thought the compensation should be higher to 
compensate her for loss of earnings from the withdrawn job offer.
Creation didn’t agree with the adjudicators view. They said they’d followed their correct 
processes and didn’t believe the account should’ve defaulted sooner. Creation didn’t accept 
Ms P was in a worse position by making payments as under the arrangement her payments 
incurred either 0% or very minimal interest. They said if she’d made no payments she 
would’ve defaulted sooner but the account balance would’ve been higher due to interest and 
charges applied following missed payments. So the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’ve come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I can see from Creation’s records that on 10 June 2009 the Citizens Advice Bureau put 
forward acceptable proposals for token payments, on Ms P’s behalf. So, it seems to me, she 
was in some form of Debt Management Program (DMP) from that point. 
Data Protection Technical Guidance on filing defaults with credit reference agencies is 
published by The Information Commissioners Office (“ICO”). Its aim is “to provide advice to 
credit grantors on the conditions under which information about defaults is filed with the 
credit reference agencies”. It deals with the situation where minimal payments are made 
under a Debt Management Plan (DMP) and says “if the payment……is at a level that 
represents only a token sum in repayment, because that is all the customer can afford, the 
account should be recorded as a default”.
I appreciate it was difficult to say if a customers position is likely to improve. And, that on first  
becoming aware of her difficulties in June 2009, Creation gave Ms P opportunity to maintain 
payments– giving her the chance for the situation to improve and prevent the usual arrears 
process being followed. But, I’ve seen the payment history for the account - which the 
adjudicators referred to in her view of 13 June 2017. Payments from June 2009 were for 
token amounts of £1 per month and then £5 per month from a further review in June 2010. 
So, I like the adjudicator, I think that by mid 2010 at the latest, Creation should’ve recognised 
Ms P was making no more that token payments towards her account. And I think that’s the 
Ref: DRN6390012
2
latest point the account should’ve defaulted. If the account had defaulted in June 2010 it 
would no longer show as defaults remain on a credit file for six years. So, I think its fair for 
the default registered in November 2014 to be removed.
I’m sorry to learn Ms P’s had difficulties with a mortgage application and with job 
applications, but there’s nothing to show the timing of the default is the only reason Ms P’s 
had those problems. But I do think Ms P’s suffered distress and inconvenience because of 
the timing of this default. So, I think Creation should pay some compensation. And, having 
carefully considered what both parties have said, I think the sum of £200, as suggested by 
the adjudicator, is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to

Remove the default in November 2014 from Ms P’s credit file

Pay £200 compensation to Ms P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2017.
Annabel O’Sullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390012
