K821x#15
complaint
Mr P says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr P complained to CCF about the PPI it sold him. As a gesture of good will, CCF agreed to 
make an award to Mr P in line with our guidance for PPI compensation. Mr P had been 
subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) that included a debt he owed to CCF. 
So it deducted the award from that debt and had the IVA adjusted accordingly.
Mr P thought CCF hadn’t included compensatory interest on the refunded PPI premiums in 
the award. He also felt that the award should be paid to his IVA supervisor. 
Our adjudicator checked CCF’s calculations and found that it had included compensatory 
interest. But didn’t think CCF should have to pay the award to the IVA supervisor. Mr P 
accepted that the amount of the award was correct. But he still thought it should be paid to 
his IVA supervisor. So I was asked to consider the matter.
I came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. So I issued a provisional decision in 
September 2017. My thinking was as follows:
“Because Mr P’s accepted that CCF has calculated the award correctly, including 
compensatory interest, I don’t need to consider that part of his complaint further. So I’ve just 
looked to see if it’s fair and reasonable for CCF to set the award off against the debt that Mr 
P owes them, and that formed part of his IVA.
Having looked at its terms, I see there’s specific provision in the IVA for PPI compensation. 
Paragraph 12 says:
“I authorise and will assist my Supervisor in reviewing and making any claims for 
compensation I may have in relation to Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”). The 
net proceeds of any claims will become an asset of the arrangement held for the 
benefit of all creditors.”
I’ve brought this to CCF’s attention. It says it’s recently reviewed its process for such cases 
and in future will make the payment to the customer’s IVA supervisor. But that in this case, 
because it’s already off-set the award against Mr P’s debt, making the payment to the IVA 
supervisor would mean it had paid the award twice.
I agree that it wouldn’t be fair for CCF to effectively pay the award twice. But equally, I think 
it should have followed the terms of the IVA. And I see that the IVA supervisor reminded 
them of this when it requested CCF to pay any refund to them.
By applying the award to the debt Mr P owes CCF, it’s effectively reduced the amount of 
unpaid debt left when the CCF is completed. But he still owes CCF money that it won’t be 
able to recover from him. So I see no reason why this offset can’t be reversed and the award 
paid to Mr P’s IVA supervisor. In this way, the terms of the IVA would be followed, CCF 
would only pay once, and all creditors under the IVA would receive a fair share of the 
compensation. So I intend to uphold this part of the complaint.”
Ref: DRN6888240
2
Mr P and CCF have seen the provisional decision and responded. Both have agreed with my 
provisional decision.
putting things right
CCF should put Mr P in the position he’d be in now if he hadn’t taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasn’t been cancelled already, and CCF should:

Pay Mr P’s IVA supervisor the amount Mr P paid each month for the PPI.

Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr P paid it until his IVA supervisor gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

If Mr P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, CCF can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes his IVA supervisor.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires CCF to take off tax from this interest. CCF must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Having taken this into account, I’ve decided 
to uphold Mr P’s complaint. I’ll now explain why.
Both parties have agreed with my provisional decision, and the reasons set out in it. So in 
this final decision I’ve reached the same conclusions and for the same reasons.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr P’s complaint in part and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2017.
Mike Foster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6888240
