K820x#14
complaint
Mrs L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) provided a loan to her 
which they should have known she couldn’t afford.
background
In August 2016 Creation provided a fixed sum loan of over £22,000 to Mrs L to fund a used 
car. The term of the loan was 60 months.
Mrs L says that the money shouldn’t have been provided as it was clearly unaffordable and 
she was approaching retirement age. She says she medically retired in February 2017 and 
has called Creation to take the car back but they’ve refused as the loan wasn’t directly linked 
to the car purchase. 
Creation noted that payments were received on time until February 2017 when Mrs L 
informed them she’d lost her job. They said they couldn’t have foreseen this when they 
approved her application and that they were happy they’d completed all necessary checks 
before approving the loan.
Mrs L was dissatisfied with their response and she therefore referred her complaint to this 
service and a couple of opinions were provided by our investigation team. In the last opinion 
our investigator explained that she thought Creation hadn’t completed sufficient checks 
before they approved the loan. She said they’d checked her credit file and reviewed her 
salary before approval but she thought they should’ve gone further and considered her 
outgoings by requesting bank statements before providing such extensive credit.
But she thought if Creation had completed proportionate checks they would have still 
approved the loan as she noted Mrs L’s salary was enhanced by some income from the 
Department of Work and Pensions and the loan only increased her monthly outgoings by a 
further £73 per month. She reviewed Mrs L’s bank statements and noted that she wasn’t at 
the extent of her credit limit and therefore seemed to be managing well at the point at which 
the loan was extended. 
She couldn’t find any evidence to suggest Mrs L had made Creation aware of any changes 
that may be affecting her employment or financial circumstances and she didn’t think it 
would be fair to ask them to consider her health issues as they hadn’t been made aware of 
that either. She explained that she wouldn’t have expected creation to reject an application 
purely on the basis that a customer was close to retirement age as that may be considered 
to be discriminatory.
So she was satisfied that although checks weren’t proportionate the loan was affordable and 
Creation therefore didn’t need to take any action about affordability
She went on to consider Creation’s actions since they’d heard of Mrs L’s financial difficulties. 
She explained that she would have expected them to have been sympathetic to Mrs L’s 
situation and she considered the actions they’d taken since they found out. 
She noted they’d asked Mrs L to provide them with information about her financial 
circumstances on three occasions in 2017 but that Mrs L hadn’t provided the information 
until 2019. She thought it was reasonable for them not to take any action until they’d 
received this information and she noted that they’d been prepared not to add interest or 
Ref: DRN6622364
2
make charges on the account from the point at which they’d been informed of Mrs L’s 
financial difficulties – she thought this was fair and that there was evidence the business had 
been sympathetic to Mrs L’s situation.
Overall, she didn’t think creation needed to take any additional action. But Mrs L disagreed 
and she said she’d tried to send the financial information back but Creation hadn’t received it 
and that they’d not explained she could make lower payments towards the agreement. And 
she went on to explain that whilst it would appear she had been able to make the first five 
payments without issue, this was only because she’d been receiving help from her son. So 
she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs L’s situation. I know it will disappoint her but I’m afraid I agree 
with the investigator’s view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think there’s evidence here that the affordability checks Creation conducted should have 
been more extensive. Whilst the monthly outgoings weren’t to increase by too much; Mrs L 
was lending about five times more than she was committed to at the time of application. I 
think Creation should therefore have looked further than her credit file and a statement of 
income. They should have considered her bank statements as it was clear she was renting 
and they would’ve wanted to see what other outgoings there were.
But if they had completed sufficient affordability checks I think it’s clear they would’ve 
identified that the loan was affordable to Mrs L. A review of her bank statements would 
demonstrate she had sufficient income to afford the monthly instalments and had sufficient 
income left over to afford other expenses. She was regularly working within her credit limit 
and I don’t think there was significant sign of strain on her finances. I’m supported in this 
view by the fact Mrs L afforded monthly repayments for the first five months until her 
financial circumstances changed. And whilst I understand she’s explained this was because 
her son made payments for her, I think the evidence suggests she could have afforded 
payments, at that time, independently.
So I don’t think the loan was unaffordable.
I would expect Creation to have reacted sympathetically from the point at which they were 
made aware of Mrs L’s financial difficulties and I think that’s been the case. They didn’t 
charge interest or make charges to the account from the point they were made aware. And it 
appears they were prepared to consider a payment plan if they’d received the financial 
information they needed to complete the necessary analysis. I understand Mrs L disputes 
that but I’ve not seen evidence that the information was sent back to Creation so it wouldn’t 
be fair to suggest they were obligated to act on it. I’ve seen that subsequently Creation did 
Ref: DRN6622364
3
refer Mrs L to their team that specialise in helping with financial difficulty at that a reduced 
payment was agreed.
So overall, I don’t think there’s been evidence here that the loan was unaffordable or that 
Creation have not responded sympathetically to Mrs L’s financial difficulties and I therefore 
won’t be asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622364
