K821x#10
complaint
Mrs B complains about a photo shoot package, paid for with a loan from Creation.
background
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. In summary, he was satisfied 
that Mrs B had not been given the photos she ordered. He also concluded that Creation 
began taking repayments for the loan earlier than agreed and failed to update Mrs B’s 
address when she first told it that she had moved house. Our adjudicator recommended that 
Creation rescind the loan and refund Mrs B’s payments, plus interest. He also recommended 
that it pay Mrs B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered in 
this matter. 
Creation did not accept those conclusions so the matter was referred to me for review and 
determination.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Mrs B bought a photo shoot package in July 2010. She paid for this with a fixed-sum loan 
from Creation. Repayments to the loan were £37.50 per month over 12 months.
Mrs B was separately sent two different CDs from which she would choose a set of six 
images to be framed. The first CD contained only 15 photos and Mrs B chose six from this. 
The second CD – sent to Mrs B some weeks later – offered a much greater selection of 40 
photos. The supplier continued to correspond with Mrs B after she had made her choice 
from the first CD. I am satisfied that it led her to believe that she was able to choose her 
framed images from the second CD. 
Mrs B received the framed images in May 2011. However, the supplier had ignored her 
second selection and provided the photos she had chosen from the first CD.
Given the correspondence between Mrs B and the supplier, I am satisfied that Mrs B should 
have been able to choose her framed images from the second CD. It also makes little sense 
for the supplier to have sent Mrs B two different CDs. The supplier has been unable to 
explain why it did not send Mrs B the 40 photo CD in the first place. On balance, I find that 
Mrs B was not given the photos she should have received.
Creation confirmed in a letter dated 6 July 2010 that “we will not request your first direct 
debit payment until after you have taken delivery of your goods”. The goods are described 
on the agreement as “cd images and frame”.
As noted above, Mrs B did not receive the framed images until May 2011. In the 
circumstances, I do not consider it unreasonable for Mrs B to believe that her first repayment 
would be after she received this. Creation had actually started taking repayments the month 
after the agreement was signed, in August 2010. 
I also find that Creation failed to update Mrs B’s address when she first told it that she had 
moved and, as a result, continued to send letters to her old address for about eight months.
Ref: DRN6220819
2
I am satisfied that the supplier breached its contract with Mrs B as it did not supply the 
photos she ordered. Creation also took repayments before it should have, and administered 
Mrs B’s account poorly. 
Generally, I would have considered a sensible resolution to this complaint would have been 
for the supplier to have allowed Mrs B to return the first frame and allowed her to choose 
from the second CD. However, the supplier has said it is no longer able to offer this. That 
leaves me little choice but to order Creation to cancel the loan agreement and refund Mrs 
B’s repayments, plus interest. It should also remove any adverse information it has recorded 
on Mrs B’s credit file. 
Finally, I find that Mrs B has suffered a certain amount of distress and inconvenience as a 
result of Creation’s actions. I consider that our adjudicator’s recommendation of £150 is a 
little high. In the circumstances, I consider £100 to be more appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

cancel the loan agreement at no further cost to Mrs B;

refund all Mrs B’s payments plus interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the 
date each payment was made to the date of settlement;

remove any adverse information it has registered about this agreement with any 
credit reference agencies; and

pay Mrs B £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused her.
If Creation considers that tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Mrs B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate so that she is able to 
claim a refund if appropriate.
Simon Begley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6220819
