K820x#13
complaint
Mrs W complains about a loan agreement she took out with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
She is unhappy about having to write to Creation to confirm she would like to opt out of any 
marketing mailings. 
background
Mrs W purchased an electrical item using a loan from Creation. When completing the 
application for the finance she read that she would have to write to Creation to opt out of any 
mailings or marketing. She says that although the application was not actually complete at 
that point she was about three quarters of the way through and a credit check had already 
been carried out on her. 
Mrs W proceeded with the loan and the purchase and then telephoned and wrote to Creation 
to ask that she be excluded from any marketing mailings. She believes this is unreasonable 
and is seeking compensation of £500 for the stress and time she has spent dealing with this. 
After complaining to Creation Mrs W referred her complaint to us, where it was considered 
by one of our adjudicators. The adjudicator did not recommend the complaint be upheld, or 
that Creation make a payment to Mrs W. Mrs W did not agree with the adjudicator and asked 
for her complaint to be escalated. It has therefore been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have not upheld this 
complaint. 
I accept that having to telephone Creation to opt out of any future marketing is not what most 
companies require and a simple tick box on an application form is generally what you would 
expect to find on an application. Creation says that it plans to change this process moving 
forward so customers do not need to write in and they can simply indicate their intentions on 
the application form. 
Mrs W was clearly aware that she would need to write to Creation if she entered into the 
loan agreement and she wanted to opt out of any marketing. Despite this, Mrs W proceeded 
with the application to complete the purchase. As Mrs W was fully aware that she would 
need to write to Creation, before she entered into the contract, I think it is unreasonable to 
then complain about having to write to Creation to opt out of any marketing. Mrs W could 
have simply decided not to proceed with the credit application if she did not like any of the 
terms that were being offered under the agreement. The terms were clearly set out to her 
and she has confirmed she read and understood those terms. 
I do not think that Mrs W had to continue with the application once she became aware of the 
need to write to Creation. She could have simply decided then to pay for the item using other 
means or not buy the item at all if she was unhappy with what was required. A credit check 
may have already been completed but this would not, in isolation, be detrimental to Mrs W in 
any way and again would not have prevented her from cancelling the application. 
Creation dealt with her request to remove her from any marketing when Mrs W did write in 
and it did so in a reasonable way. It has confirmed that her details were not passed on or 
Ref: DRN6662074
2
used for marketing before it received her written request. This again seems very reasonable 
to me in the circumstances. 
I do not think that Creation has done anything wrong here or acted unreasonably in any of its 
dealings with Mrs W. I do not therefore find there to be any grounds to instruct Creation to 
pay Mrs W the £500 she is seeking, or any amount less than this.  
I appreciate Mrs W is likely to remain unhappy with my decision but it does represent the 
final stage in our process. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award or instruction 
against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2015.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662074
