K821x#14
complaint
Mrs C says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should meet her claim against a company 
(which I’ll call S) which supplied a burglar alarm system. Creation provided the finance for 
the alarm system.
Mrs C complains that she didn’t get what she paid for. She says that S agreed to supply the 
system and monitor it for 15 years, but S went out of business after two years. The effect of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that Creation should make good her losses.
background
In 2009 Mrs C bought a burglar alarm system from S. To finance the purchase she took out 
a £4,450 loan with Creation, payable over 10 years, and paid a deposit of £100. Mrs C was 
initially going to borrow more (£5,750), but says that she decided very quickly that she 
couldn’t afford it. As a result she was offered the alarm system at a reduced price – along 
with a smaller loan.
Because of this there are two loan agreements on file, for two different amounts. Importantly, 
the agreement for the smaller loan includes a note saying “alarm system instal [sic] no 
monitoring”. The first loan agreement (which Mrs C didn’t sign and which was for the larger 
amount) didn’t include that note.
The agreement which Mrs C signed with S included the old, higher price. It also included a 
section headed “MONITORING SERVICE” which said that the system would be monitored at 
all times and explained what that would entail. Mrs C provided S with the names of two key 
holders who were to be contacted if the alarm was triggered.
S installed the alarm system and Mrs C paid the loan for some two years. But when S went 
out of business, she repaid the balance of the loan and complained to Creation that she 
hadn’t got what she paid for.
Creation said that the effect of the note on the second loan agreement was that Mrs C’s 
agreement with S didn’t include monitoring. So she had got what she paid for – an alarm 
system, installed.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. She recommended that Creation pay Mrs C 
the balance of the loan she had paid when S went out of business, together with interest and 
a further £200 in recognition of the trouble she’d been put to. Creation didn’t respond, so the 
case was passed to me to decide.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The effect of section 75 of the consumer credit act is that, if Mrs C has a claim against S, 
she might be able to bring a similar claim against Creation. I’ve taken section 75 into account 
in deciding what’s fair here.
Ref: DRN6498790
2
First, section 75 will only apply if the loan was set up because of arrangements between 
Creation and S. There were such arrangements here. Creation hasn’t suggested otherwise, 
and I see that the agreement with S makes reference to the payment plan.
Second, Mrs C must have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. Whether or 
not she does depends on what S said it would provide – and what it actually provided. That 
comes down to a fairly simple issue – did S agree to provide a monitoring service? Creation 
says it didn’t, because the note on the loan agreement said there was no monitoring. Mrs C 
says that note wasn’t on her copy of the agreement. I don’t however need to decide whether 
there was a note on the loan agreement when Mrs C signed it.
That’s because the loan agreement recorded Mrs C’s agreement with Creation, not with S. 
What she agreed with S was in her agreement with that company. It included clear and 
detailed information about the monitoring service. If S wasn’t going to provide that service, it 
wouldn’t have been in its own agreement – or S would have made clear that that part of the 
agreement didn’t apply.
S didn’t provide a monitoring service for the full 15 years it agreed to do so. At best, it did so 
for around two years. I think it’s fair that Creation should compensate Mrs C for the fact that 
she didn’t get all that she paid for.
The adjudicator recommended that Creation pay Mrs C the amount she paid in February 
2011 to settle the loan – together with interest and a further £200. She’s had some benefit 
from the agreement with S of course – because she’s had an alarm system installed. But 
she made monthly loan payments for two years as well. So, whilst there may be other ways 
of working out a fair outcome here, I think that what the adjudicator suggested is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay Mrs C:

£4,226.81;

interest on that amount at 8% simple a year from 22 February 2011 until the date 
Creation makes payment; and

£200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which Mrs C has been put.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision 8 July 2015.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6498790
