K821x#14
complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to him.
background
In 2006, Mr E bought a television in a shop and he took out a £499.99 loan to pay for it. At 
the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £163.05, which was added to 
the loan and attracted interest. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr E wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £145.38 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr E’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if it 
had done so.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr E was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr E how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the credit 
agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Mr E to work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr E would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying a television – not on insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr E to understand what the policy was costing 
him.

The information on the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr E aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months, the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 29.8%. This meant Mr E would pay a substantial extra amount of 
Ref: DRN6548499
2
interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr E was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr E would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a small amount over a fairly short term.

I don’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons I uphold Mr E’s complaint.
fair compensation
If Mr E agrees to Creation cancelling the PPI policy Creation should:
A. Restructure the loan (without charge to Mr E) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed, and

the number and amounts of any future loan repayments (including any interest 
and charges) are the same as they would have been if Mr E had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
B. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr E because PPI was added to 
his loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr E had taken out 
the loan without PPI

subtracting those amounts from what Mr E actually paid and paying him the 
difference 

paying Mr E interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the 
rate of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress 
is paid†

taking into account any PPI premium refunded to Mr E when the policy is 
cancelled or the value of any successful claim.
C. Write to Mr E to set out what he still owes and how much he will pay and when as a 
result of (A). This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under (B).
If Mr E wants to use any money he receives to reduce the loan, Creation should allow this. 
But it cannot require Mr E to reduce the loan to less than it would be now had Mr E not 
bought the PPI policy. 
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr E needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr E should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
Ref: DRN6548499
3
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6548499
