K820x#14
complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCCF) didn’t use extra payments 
she made towards a credit agreement to reduce the amount she had to pay each month and 
provided poor service. 
 
background
Miss B took this credit agreement out to fund the purchase of various items from a high-
street retailer. She was told she could make overpayments and these would reduce the 
amount she had to pay each month. She made some overpayments but her monthly 
payment didn’t go down. Miss B got in touch with CCCF but it ignored her emails and took 
too long to respond. She says this caused financial problems. She wants CCCF to sort the 
matter out and pay compensation. 
CCCF says there’s a problem with its payment system which means it can’t reduce the 
monthly payment amount at the moment. It’s trying to fix this but can’t say how long that will 
take. CCCF offered Miss B some alternative ways to pay and agreed to pay her £50 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator is satisfied that Miss B should be able to make overpayments to reduce her 
monthly repayments but CCCF can’t sort that out at present. She explained that we’d expect 
CCCF to offer Miss B an alternative solution in this situation. She thinks CCCF did this - by 
offering to refund the overpayments Miss B made and explaining she can also use 
overpayments to reduce the term of the agreement if she wants to. Our investigator asked 
CCCF if Miss B can make underpayments manually going forward. CCCF confirmed this is 
possible, as long as she ensures there’s enough credit to meet the contractual amount due. 
Our investigator didn’t think that was unreasonable. 
Miss B told us that she had to use an overdraft to cover bills because CCCF was unable to 
reduce the monthly repayment due in line with her overpayments. Our investigator was 
satisfied that the monthly amount due would only have been reduced by about £3 - if CCCF 
had been able to lower the monthly amount. She’s not persuaded that’s likely to have had a 
significant impact on Miss B’s finances. 
Our investigator considered the customer service issues. She agrees CCCF let Miss B down 
- she wasn’t called back as promised on two occasions, an agent she spoke to early on was 
unhelpful and CCCF took some time to offer a reasonable resolution. Taking everything into 
account, our investigator thinks £50 compensation sounds fair and CCCF has provided a 
reasonable response to Miss B’s complaint overall. 
Miss B says this is a long-standing issue which hasn’t been fixed and CCCF hasn’t told its 
customers about that. She doesn’t think our adjudicator looked at her complaint impartially 
and she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I am sorry to disappoint Miss B but I’ve 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN6525689
2
I can see that Miss B has strong feelings about what happened here. I accept she had the 
right to make overpayments towards her account and the relevant terms and conditions say 
she could choose whether to use those to reduce the time it would take to pay back the 
money she borrowed - or reduce the amount she had to pay each month. 
Miss B made several overpayments and she wanted CCCF to reduce her monthly direct 
debit to take those into account. CCCF said it couldn’t do that automatically because of an IT 
problem but Miss B could make a lower manual payment each month. I appreciate this may 
not be as convenient for Miss B but I don’t think it was an unreasonable option, in these 
particular circumstances. And I consider it would probably have the same effect overall, in 
terms of the impact on Miss B’s finances. 
I understand Miss B feels it’s wrong that CCCF hasn’t been able to sort the IT problem out. 
And she thinks it should be required to tell customers what’s going on in this situation. But, I 
am not a regulator. I don’t have the power to tell CCCF how to operate on a day to day 
basis. I’m looking at the circumstances of Miss B’s individual complaint in this decision. 
I’m satisfied that CCCF has explained what happened in response to Miss B’s specific 
complaint. And it has also apologised and acknowledged mistakes were made and Miss B 
should have received better service. I have no doubt this has caused Miss B some distress 
and inconvenience. But, I think the £50 compensation CCCF has paid fairly reflects that. I 
realise this isn’t the outcome Miss B wanted but I am not persuaded that I can reasonably 
find CCCF should do more in these circumstances.   
  
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6525689
