K820x#14
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd extended the term of his loan 
agreement when he asked it for help with the repayments due. Mr T is also unhappy at the 
way Creation has recorded details of the finance agreement on his credit file. 
background
Mr T entered into a finance agreement with Creation in 2010 to refinance an old agreement. 
Shortly afterwards he experienced financial difficulties. He discussed this with Creation and it 
agreed to reduce his monthly payment from £294.34 to £223.18. The term of the loan was 
extended but Creation did not add extra interest. 
Creation recorded the finance agreement on Mr T’s credit file as credit sale fixed term. This 
shows that the arrangement was for a specific reason, in this case to refinance an old loan. 
Mr T is unhappy with this as the previous finance was simply recorded as a loan.
Mr T brought a complaint to us to consider. 
The adjudicator who considered the complaint did not recommend that it should be upheld. 
She considered that the way Creation had recorded details of the loan on Mr T’s credit file 
had no adverse consequences for him. Further the adjudicator considered that Creation had 
acted positively and sympathetically to Mr T when he was in financial difficulties. Under the 
extended repayment period, he had to pay £2,375.44 less than that due under the original 
finance agreement. 
Mr T is not happy to accept the adjudicator’s recommendation. He says that he should not 
have to make any payments to Creation as it cannot find the loan agreement he signed. 
Further, it should refund all the payments he has made under it. The savings Mr T has made 
in Creation reducing the amount he has to repay does not outweigh the fact the term of the 
loan has been extended by two years.
The adjudicator replied to say that it is for a court to say if a loan is unenforceable when the 
original agreement cannot be found. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate that Creation cannot produce a copy of the original loan agreement. 
However as the adjudicator has explained, only a court can decide if this means the 
agreement is unenforceable. 
Mr T approached Creation in 2010 to tell it that he could not afford to pay his monthly 
repayments as he was in financial difficulty. Creation did not agree to write off part of the 
amount he owed. It did however agree that he could pay off the loan at a lower monthly sum. 
This meant however that Mr T would take longer to repay the total sum he owed. Creation 
did not however charge him any more interest despite the fact Mt T would be taking longer to 
repay the balance. 
Mr T says he was not told that he would have to make repayments for a longer period. I 
consider however that he should reasonably have been aware that he was not making his 
Ref: DRN6353995
2
full loan repayments. As such, it would take him longer to pay off his full balance. I do not 
find that the loan was mis-sold. It was Mr T who approached Creation to reduce his 
payments. I have not seen anything given to Mr T at this time which would suggest that 
Creation had agreed that he would not have to pay back all his loan. 
I am not persuaded that Creation has done anything wrong in the way it has recorded details 
of the loan on Mr T’s credit file. I do not consider that the entry has had any adverse impact 
on him. It suggests that the loan was for a specific purpose which is correct. Further 
repayments are fixed over a period of time. Again this is accurate. In the circumstances, I do 
not find that Creation has acted unreasonably in the entry it has made on Mr T’s credit file. 
Mr T considers we have only taken what Creation says into account in reaching a decision in 
this case. I assure him that this is not the case. I have carefully noted what both he and 
Creation have said before coming to any conclusion. 
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2015.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353995
