K820x#11
complaint
Mr K complains about a used car he bought through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). He says the car was not of satisfactory quality 
when he bought it and he brings his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 28 February 2014, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I felt Mr K’s complaint should not be upheld, but I 
invited further comments from the parties before I reconsider the complaint and issue my 
final decision. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Creation said it had nothing further to 
add. Mr K broadly accepts the findings of the provisional decision and the reasons for this. 
He does not however feel the pre-delivery inspection, by the retailer, was sufficient to identify 
the problem and it was suggested by the recovery agent that the pre-delivery inspection was 
merely a ‘sticker in the window’. He also reiterated that he has been honest and truthful 
throughout his complaint.
my findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
conclusions as my provisional decision, for what are essentially the same reasons. 
I have noted Mr K’s comments about the pre-delivery inspection report and I accept it may 
have simply been ticked without the checks actually being made. The pre-delivery inspection 
report was not however the sole reason for the complaint not being upheld and there were 
other, more significant, factors that have affected the outcome of the complaint. Had the fault 
been present at the time Mr K took possession of the car I still think the fault would have 
been apparent much sooner than it actually was. 
I do not doubt that Mr K has been truthful and honest in his submissions, but for the reasons 
explained here, and in my provisional decision, I do not think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617849
2
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr K complains about a used car he bought through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation). He says the car was not of satisfactory quality when he bought it 
and he brings his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
background
In August 2012 Mr K bought a used car using a loan agreement taken out with Creation. Around six 
months later the car developed a problem and it was established that there was a hole in the gear box 
casing that had allowed the gear box oil to leak out. As the gear box had no oil it caused the gear box 
to fail. 
Mr K complained to the supplying dealer and Creation but his complaint was not upheld. Creation said 
that as he had not had the car serviced at the required 6,000 mile interval the warranty was not valid 
and it would not therefore cover the repair costs. Creation also stated that it had been told by the 
supplying dealer that had the car been faulty when sold it would not have travelled almost 8,000 
before it failed. 
Mr K did not accept Creation’s conclusions and referred his complaint to us. As he needed to use the 
car he arranged for the repairs to be completed to the gear box and clutch. He paid for the cost of the 
repairs and is seeking reimbursement from Creation.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators and he felt it should be upheld. He 
recommended Creation reimburse Mr K for the repair costs he had incurred. Creation did not accept 
the adjudicator’s findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr K bought the car using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation and he brings his complaint 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. If the car was found to be of unsatisfactory quality when 
Mr K bought it he would have an equal claim for compensation against Creation as the provider of the 
finance. 
From the evidence that has been presented so far in this complaint I am minded to conclude that the 
car was of satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr K. I do not therefore feel that Creation 
should be liable for the costs that Mr K has incurred in repairing the car. 
The car Mr K bought was, at the time in August 2012, around 3½ years old and had travelled almost 
34,000 miles. The price paid would reflect the age and condition of the car and this would be less than 
the cost of the car when it was first manufactured. It is not unreasonable to expect a car of this age 
and mileage to experience some problems. That said, it should still be of satisfactory quality when it 
was actually sold to Mr K. 
Mr K accepts that the car was fine for around six months and during this time he had travelled 
approximately 7,800 miles. Had the gear box been defective when he bought the car it is reasonable 
to assume that the gear box oil would be leaking from the gear box over this six-month period and 
while Mr K was accumulating the 7,800 miles. If the gear box had been leaking from outset I think it is 
more likely than not that the fault would have materialised much sooner than it did. It is, in my view, 
very likely that the oil would have leaked out of the gear box over a relatively short time and the failure 
of the gear box would follow rapidly when the oil reserve had emptied. 
Ref: DRN6617849
3
As the car had travelled approximately 7,800 miles over six months I think it more likely than not that 
the problem with the gear box happened within a relatively short period before its failure. I do not think 
the fault would have been present when Mr K bought the car as it would have been apparent sooner 
than it was. 
I also note that the pre delivery inspection refers to ‘under vehicle’ checks and that no problem was 
identified when the gear box was checked for any signs of a leak. The MOT was completed shortly 
before the sale and this also made no mention (in the advisory notices) of any gear box oil leak. 
These again suggest that there was no leak when the car was sold to Mr K. 
I appreciate that my provisional decision will come as a disappointment to Mr K but from the evidence 
presented in this complaint I am not persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was sold 
to Mr K. I think it more likely the fault developed at some point shortly before the gear box failure and I 
do not think Creation should be liable for the repair cost. 
my provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions that I receive from the parties in this complaint, my final decision is 
that I do not uphold the complaint and I make no award or instruction against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617849
