K821x#14
complaint
Mrs H complains that the solar panels she obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were misrepresented to her.
background
Mrs H says she was led to believe that the energy generated from the solar panels would 
cover the loan repayments. But when the first payment was received, it was much lower than 
she had anticipated.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Mrs H had been given misleading information which induced her to enter into the agreement. 
The adjudicator recommended that the agreement should be cancelled, all payments 
refunded, any overdraft fees that Mrs H had incurred as a result of the loan payments be 
reimbursed and any adverse information recorded on her credit file be removed. If Creation 
wanted to remove the panels, it would need to make required repairs to the roof.
Creation responded to say, in summary, that the documentation signed by Mrs H shows the 
total savings and benefits and there was never a suggestion that Mrs H would receive 
enough to cover her monthly loan payments.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I find that I have come to 
the same conclusion as the adjudicator for much the same reasons.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs H may seek to recover money paid 
under the terms of the loan agreement from Creation if the supplier misrepresented the 
contract. I think the agreement was misrepresented; let me explain why.
The paperwork which Mrs H signed sets out the monthly cost of the loan agreement and the 
likely savings and benefits she would receive. The figures do not suggest she would receive 
enough to meet the monthly loan costs. But I consider the contract was verbally 
misrepresented to her. I say this because Mrs H has given this service a detailed recollection 
of the conversations she had with two of the supplier’s representatives. I am persuaded from 
what she has told us that she was led to believe, by both representatives, that the cost of the 
agreement would be covered by the benefit she would receive from the energy created by 
the solar panels. Taking into account her age and her financial circumstances, I don’t think 
she would reasonably have entered into the agreement if she had known the panels would 
not generate enough benefits and savings to meet her monthly costs. This is supported by 
the fact that she has had difficulty meeting the monthly repayments.
As I have concluded Mrs H would not have entered into the agreement if it had not been 
misrepresented to her, I consider she should be put back in the position she would have 
been in had she not taken out the agreement.
Ref: DRN6914315
2
The adjudicator recommended that Creation refund the overdraft fees Mrs H has incurred as 
a result of the loan repayments. But, although I think the loan repayments have not helped 
Mrs H’s overall financial position, it appears from her account statements that she would 
have incurred overdraft interest even without these payments. So I don’t think Creation 
should be liable for her overdraft fees. But I don’t think Mrs H should have incurred any costs 
as a result of entering into this agreement, so I think Creation should pay her £15 to cover 
her telephone and postal costs.
my final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement, I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1.
Cancel the agreement and refund all payments made, less the payments Mrs H has 
received from National Grid. Creation may opt to either leave the panels in place or 
make the necessary repairs to the roof should it opt to remove them.
2.
Remove any adverse information from Mrs H’s credit file in respect of this loan 
agreement.
3.
Pay Mrs H £15.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2015.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6914315
