K821x#15
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), then known as Open and 
Direct Retail Services Limited, mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to him 
when he took out a loan.
background
In 2005 Mr T bought some furniture in a shop. He took out a loan to pay for it. At the same 
time he bought a single premium PPI policy, the cost of which was added to the loan. It gave 
him cover if he was off work because of accident and sickness, or he lost his job. And it 
included life cover too.
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. This meant Mr T wouldn’t have to pay 
interest – or pay for the PPI - if he paid off the loan within that time. If he didn’t pay it off by 
then, he’d have to pay interest over the remaining 36 months of the loan, including on the 
premium for the PPI policy.
Mr T has raised various issues about how the PPI was sold to him. In particular, he 
complains that he wasn’t given any information about the policy. And he feels his financial 
position meant he didn’t need PPI. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr T’s complaint should be upheld. He didn’t think Creation had 
made it clear enough to Mr T how much the policy would cost. And he didn’t think Mr T 
would’ve taken out the policy, if Creation had done that.
But Creation disagrees. It says the paperwork Mr T was given was enough for him to 
understand what the PPI cost. So the complaint’s come to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments, to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr T’s case.
Having done that, I’ve decided to uphold Mr T’s complaint. I’ll explain why.
From what we’ve been told, I think the PPI was sold face to face, while Mr T was in the shop. 
Creation was responsible for telling Mr T about the cost and key features of the PPI, in a way 
that was clear and fair and wasn’t misleading. And I’ve looked particularly at the information 
he got about its cost. 
I don’t know what, if anything, was discussed about PPI in the store. But I’ve read the 
paperwork I’ve been given. It includes the credit agreement Mr T signed. That agreement 
told him the amount of the PPI premium. But it didn’t show the interest on that premium as a 
separate figure, or tell him the total cost of the PPI. I think it was reasonable for him to 
expect all the important information about the PPI’s cost to be made clear in the agreement 
– and it wasn’t.
Ref: DRN7304723
2
And in my view the agreement didn’t make clear enough the effect the ‘buy now pay later’ 
period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay the loan off during the first 
12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at a rate of 29.8%. This 
meant Mr T would pay a large amount of interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the 
only benefit he’d got from it was ‘free’ life cover. 
I’ve seen a policy summary, which Creation says Mr T will’ve had. It includes a ‘statement of 
price’, on its second page. But I can’t be sure whether he was given this document, and if so 
when – or if he had time to read and think about it carefully, before he bought the PPI. 
If Mr T saw it, this document did tell him the amount of interest he’d have to pay on the PPI 
premium, if he didn’t pay off the loan inside 12 months. And it set out the total cost of the 
PPI. But this information was only towards the end of the policy summary. It wasn’t 
highlighted or easy to find, and wasn’t where Mr T might’ve reasonably expected it to be. So 
I don’t know whether it was drawn clearly to his attention - particularly as he was in a shop, 
and his main focus was probably on buying furniture, not on buying insurance. 
The interest payable on the PPI was almost as much as the premium itself. And the total 
cost of the policy was also high, compared to the modest sum Mr T was borrowing. This was 
unusual, and I think it would’ve been important information for Mr T to know, when he was 
deciding whether or not to buy the PPI. 
I see too that the paperwork he was given didn’t set out the monthly cost of the policy. This 
would’ve been good practice, and might’ve helped Mr T understand what the policy was 
going to cost him.
So in my view, Creation didn’t tell Mr T clearly enough how much the policy would cost, 
before he bought it. I don’t think Mr T would’ve properly understood the effect of the ‘buy 
now pay later’ period on the interest payable, and the total cost of the PPI. 
And based on what I know about his circumstances at that time, on balance I think it’s 
unlikely Mr T would’ve bought the policy, if he’d been made fully aware how much it was 
going to cost him. That’s particularly because Mr T has said he had substantial savings – 
much more than the amount of the loan – which he could’ve used to make the repayments, if 
he wasn’t working. Those monthly repayments – including the PPI - were only about £60. 
Creation says he could’ve cancelled the policy after signing the agreement. And that’s true. 
But in my view he should’ve been told the important information that he needed to know 
before he signed it. I don’t think the fact he didn’t cancel it afterwards meant he’d properly 
understood what it was costing him.
So overall, I think it’s fair and reasonable to uphold Mr T’s complaint. Mr T has lost out 
because of what Creation did wrong, and it needs to put things right.
putting things right
I’m told the loan and the PPI have now ended. But Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, 
so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he paid more than he should’ve each 
month. So Mr T needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So Creation should:
Ref: DRN7304723
3

Work out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid each month, from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr T’s complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is to pay him the fair compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2016.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7304723
