K820x#14
complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under S 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a sofa.
background
In April 2014 Mr F bought a sofa from a retailer with finance provided by Creation. In 
May 2014 he noticed the leather was peeling and there was a problem with the stitching. A 
service manager came out and inspected the sofa and said that this was quite normal and 
the solution was to paint the leather.
Mr F complained further to the retailer’s head office as he noted it was impossible to clean 
the painted areas and more peeling had occurred. A service manager inspected the sofa 
again and offered to repaint the existing and new problem areas. A further visit was made in 
December and the service manager agreed there were quality issues and offered to recover 
the cushions. Mr F says he had lost faith in the retailer and asked Creation to cancel his 
agreement and refund what he had paid.
Creation rejected Mr F claim as it said he had refused to speak with the retailer to resolve 
the issue. Mr F said he had not refused to talk to the retailer and he brought his complaint to 
this service. Our adjudicator recommended that it be upheld. She asked Creation to obtain 
an independent report which it did, but as the sofa was now over a year old it showed that 
there had been wear and tear. Creation had relied heavily on what it had been told by the 
retailer including an assertion that the sofa had been cleaned with non-approved cleaner.
She noted that the retailer had accepted in December that the sofa was faulty. The retailer’s 
notes state: “As previously said not all marks are manufacturing defects and have been 
caused by the customer…”. She asked for the retailer’s report from the December visit, but 
despite repeated requests this was not forthcoming. She concluded that there were 
manufacturing faults and so Creation should unwind the agreement and repay Mr F all the 
payments he had made.
She also considered that Creation had not handled the investigation well and she said it 
should pay Mr F compensation of £50. Creation did not agree and said the independent 
report showed wear and tear.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is surprising that leather should peel off a new sofa within a few months. I note that the 
sofa was an ex demonstration model, but was sold as pristine. The retailer eventually 
accepted that there were manufacturing issues. It did also say that the sofa had been 
cleaned with non-approved cleaner. Mr F denies this and says he used the cleaner he 
bought from the retailer. It would appear that there are no detailed reports from the various 
inspections and so I am unable to explore the basis for the retailer’s claims that the wrong 
cleaner was used. I am inclined to believe Mr F.
I note that the independent report which was carried out over a year after the sofa had been 
purchased showed that the sofa was suffering wear and tear. This is not surprising as it had 
Ref: DRN7554652
2
been used for a year. I note the retailer’s records show the manager thought it was being 
used heavily. I am not sure on what evidence he based this assertion. In any event the 
leather should not peel off after a couple of months.
I consider it sufficiently clear that there were manufacturing faults. The retailer has already 
accepted this and even if there has been subsequent wear and tear which has occurred 
while Mr F sought to have the faults addressed that does not mean that the manufacturing 
faults should be ignored. The offer to recover the cushions would not, in my opinion, be a 
satisfactory response.
Mr F was sold a faulty sofa and I agree with the adjudicator that this complaint should be 
upheld.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to unwind the finance agreement and refund all the payments made by Mr F. It 
should pay Mr F compensation of £50. It should also arrange for the collection of the sofa at 
its own cost and at a time that is convenient for Mr F. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
2 October 2015.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7554652
