K821x#14
complaint
Mrs Y complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold her a loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs Y took out the PPI policy with a loan when she bought some electrical goods in 
November 2007. Creation said that the sale took place in the store, and that it didn’t advise 
Mrs Y to take out the PPI. She borrowed £626.99 for the goods, and the PPI cost an 
additional £204.42. This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. So if Mrs Y repaid the loan within that 
time she wouldn’t pay interest. After that the loan was set to be repaid over 36 months. The 
monthly payments included the PPI premium and a further £182.21 in interest on the 
premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Y’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mrs Y would have bought the policy if it 
had.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mrs Y was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs Y’s complaint. This is because I agree with the adjudicator that 
Creation didn’t properly tell Mrs Y how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs Y to work it out 
for herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

There was a ‘statement of price’ which did set out the interest. But it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where I think Mrs Y would expect it to be. 
And I can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a store 
and her attention was on buying electrical items – not insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mrs Y better understand what the policy was costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mrs Y aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t 
repay the loan within the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 29.8%. This meant Mrs Y would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on 
the PPI cost for the first year. But the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN7137145
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mrs Y was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mrs Y would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy - especially as she was borrowing a modest amount for non-essential items. 
Overall I don’t think Mrs Y would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware 
of how much it was going to cost her. So I uphold Mrs Y’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs Y borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was higher than it should have been 
and she paid more than she should have done each month. So she needs to get back the 
extra she has paid. 
So Creation should:

work out and pay Mrs Y the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would have paid each month without PPI;

add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs Y paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†);

if Mrs Y made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what 
Mrs Y received from what’s due to her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs Y’s complaint. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2015.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137145
