K820x#9
complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has not responded to his 
complaint and has made errors on his account. Mr L also considers the credit agreement is 
unenforceable.
background
Mr L bought some furniture with the assistance of a finance agreement from Creation. The 
table he bought was faulty and it was returned. Mr L brought a complaint to this service 
which was resolved on the basis that Creation did the following:
1. Remove the cost of the table from the credit agreement;
2. Remove any interest in respect of the cost of the table from the credit agreement;
3. Ensure that Mr L’s credit file has not been adversely affected as a result of the 
matter; and
4.
Pay Mr L £50 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Creation deducted an amount from the credit agreement which, it says, is the cost of the 
table. The agreement does not attract interest so there was no action to be taken by 
Creation in relation to this aspect. Mr L had been making reduced payments to Creation to 
reflect the issues with the table. Because of this, adverse information had been recorded on 
his credit file. These entries were removed by Creation. The £50 compensation was initially 
paid to Mr L’s finance account, but later he was sent a cheque.
Mr L complained to Creation after he received a letter telling him his account was in arrears. 
In his letter he explained that the agreement was unenforceable, as some of the goods had 
been returned to the shop. Mr L said that there were no arrears on the account and the 
amount that was outstanding was not correct. Creation acknowledged the complaint, but 
Mr L says that it did not respond fully and Mr L complained to this service. 
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He considered that 
the amount deducted from the credit agreement by Creation was correct. He concluded that 
Creation had responded to Mr L’s complaint, because it was in correspondence with this 
service about the initial complaint at the same time, which was resolved. The adjudicator 
explained that it is not our role to decide the enforceability of credit agreements.
Mr L did not agree and responded to say, in summary, that the amount refunded for the table 
is incorrect and Creation has failed to properly calculate the amount owed and take account 
of his payments. Mr L says that Creation has not responded to his complaints and he has 
been considerably inconvenienced.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and everything that Mr L and Creation have said 
and provided in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint.
Taking into account the discount that Mr L received on the total order and apportioning it to 
the cost of the table, I consider that Creation has correctly calculated the amount to be 
deducted from the credit agreement in respect of the table. I do not consider that it would be 
Ref: DRN7811485
2
fair or reasonable for the full cost of the table to be deducted, because Mr L did not pay that 
amount for it.
I have considered the initial balance, deducted the discounted amount of the table and 
Mr L’s payments to date. I cannot conclude that Creation has made any error in calculating 
the amount outstanding under the credit agreement, or that the figures are incorrect. The 
amount deducted by Creation for Mr L’s payments is the same figure that Mr L says in his 
letter that he has paid.
 
Charges have been added to the account because Mr L did not pay anything towards the 
outstanding balance, after the amount for the table was deducted. Two charges of £100 
have been removed, but one has remained on the account. Mr L has not made any payment 
towards the outstanding balance for an extended period. The charge is in line with the 
amount set out in the terms and conditions. I do not consider that it is fair or reasonable to 
order Creation to refund the charge in these circumstances.
As explained by the adjudicator, decisions on whether a credit agreement is enforceable are 
made by a court, rather than by us. I make no finding in relation to this matter.  
Mr L has said that Creation did not respond to his complaint. Creation was in 
correspondence with this service at the relevant time and provided information about the 
account and the calculations. When it was clear that Mr L remained unhappy with the 
responses and there were further complaints, Creation responded. I consider that Creation 
has attempted to deal with Mr L’s complaints. I am unable to conclude in these 
circumstances that Creation has made any error. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7811485
