K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains about the interest applied to his credit agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. And he’s unhappy about the entries on his credit file 
relating to this credit agreement.
background
Mr P took out a credit agreement with Creation in March 2017. The credit agreement was a 
‘restricted use’ agreement with an overall credit limit of £5000 where Mr P could make 
multiple purchases under one agreement. 
As part of this agreement, Mr P purchased an iPad. It held a special offer rate of ‘buy now, 
pay later’ which meant Mr P wouldn’t incur any interest costs if he paid this part of the 
agreement off before September 2017.
Mr P paid off the iPad agreement in April 2017; however the overall agreement wasn’t 
closed until November 2017 when Mr P requested this through our service.
In relation to the credit agreement, fees and interest, Mr P is unhappy that;

Creation’s system shows a monthly interest rate of 1.52% and an APR of 19.76% 
(without fees),

the agreement Mr P signed showed a monthly interest rate of 1.524% and an APR of 
19.9%,

Mr P believes 0.14% commission may have been exchanged between the broker 
and the creditor and he wasn’t told about this,

the interest rate wasn’t explained to him properly,

he wasn’t aware the credit limit was £5000.
And in relation to his credit file, Mr P is unhappy that;

Creation created an entry on his credit file in February 2017 but the agreement 
wasn’t taken out until March 2017,

the credit file shows no updates between February 2017 and May 2017 and then 
turns inactive,

the agreement was still showing on his credit file despite paying it off in April 2017,

the agreement was recorded as a ‘credit card’ which is incorrect.
The investigator who looked at Mr P’s complaint didn’t uphold it. In summary, he thought the 
APR and interest rate was the same but Creation had chosen to display it differently (three 
decimal points instead of two) on their system. And he hadn’t seen Mr P had suffered 
financially because he paid the agreement before any interest was charged. The investigator 
was also satisfied Mr P would have been aware of the type of agreement he had, and the 
overall credit limit. And he was happy that the credit file was showing accurate information in 
relation to the status of the account. And as there wasn’t an option for a ‘restricted use’ 
entry, he thought a ‘credit card’ entry was the most appropriate in the circumstances.
Mr P remained unhappy so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN7457542
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint Mr P greatly, so I’ve 
explained my reasoning further below.
the credit agreement, fees and interest
Mr P took out an agreement with Creation which allowed him to purchase multiple items 
under one agreement. I’ve seen the paperwork which was provided to Mr P and in particular 
the ‘Important Customer Information’ document. This clearly states the overall credit limit is 
£5000. I’ve also seen a statement dated April 2017 which was sent to Mr P. The statement 
gives details on the current balance, available credit and overall credit limit. Therefore, I can’t 
fairly say Mr P wasn’t aware of the credit limit he had.
I’ve considered what Mr P has said about the interest rate and APR. And I appreciate why 
he would be concerned the agreement he signed and Creation’s system show different 
figures.
The investigator has explained that there’s no regulatory requirement to display the monthly 
interest rate to three decimal places, however Creation chose to do this on the agreement 
itself. Because of that, the rate showed as 1.524% monthly interest. However, on their 
system it shows as 1.52%. I understand Mr P’s concern with this but I’m satisfied the overall 
rate is the same and the way it is displayed is different.
I’ve also considered Mr P’s comments about the difference in APR being paid as 
commission between Creation and the broker. However, I haven’t seen anything to suggest 
this is the case. 
I’ve found that there isn’t a difference in the interest rates being charged, however, even if 
there was, I’ve seen Mr P paid off his credit agreement before the ‘buy now, pay later’ offer 
ended. And therefore, I don’t consider the interest rate has affected him or the payments 
he’s made in any way. Therefore, based on everything I’ve seen, I’m satisfied Mr P hasn’t 
lost out as a result of any difference in interest rate.
the credit report
Mr P is concerned that Creation recorded the agreement in question as a credit card. I 
recognise the type of agreement Mr P has isn’t a credit card. It’s a restricted use credit 
agreement which allows Mr P to buy multiple items from the same supplier, up to the credit 
limit available. 
There isn’t a valid entry from the credit reference agencies which allows the agreement to be 
recorded as a ‘restricted use’. And taking into account the overall use of the agreement, I 
think it most closely matches that of a credit card. So I don’t find it unreasonable the 
agreement has been recorded in this way.
Mr P has raised concerns that Creation recorded an entry on his credit file in February 2017 
even though the agreement with them didn’t start until March 2017. I’ve reviewed Mr P’s 
credit file and I haven’t seen an entry from Creation in February 2017.
Ref: DRN7457542
3
The entry from Creation started in March 2017 and until June 2017 was recorded as ‘U’. The 
credit reference agencies have confirmed a ‘U’ recording means unclassified. More simply, 
that means a payment isn’t due or an agreement has been recently opened. I’ve considered 
this entry alongside the payments Mr P made to his credit agreement and I consider it 
reasonable. I say that because Mr P opened the agreement in March 2017, and paid off the 
current balance in April 2017. Therefore, during this time I do find the ‘U’ recording to be the 
most appropriate.
From July 2017 to November 2017, Mr P’s credit file shows the agreement as ‘N’. This 
means the facility hasn’t been used. While Mr P paid off the iPad part of the agreement, he 
didn’t ask Creation to close the whole agreement until November 2017. Therefore, I find this 
recording a true reflection of this agreement’s status. The full credit limit of £5000 was 
available for Mr P to use if he wished to, but he didn’t.
As Mr P closed the agreement in full in November 2017 it’s reasonable that from this date 
the agreement is showing as settled on Mr P’s credit file.
overall
I know how strongly Mr P feels about this issue overall, but I can’t fairly conclude Creation 
have done anything wrong. And therefore, I won’t be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
So, for the reasons I’ve explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr P’s 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7457542
