K821x#15
complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s rejection of her claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2018 concluding that Mrs F’s complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Creation should do to put things right. I attach a redacted version 
of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision. 
Creation responded to say that it does not agree with my provisional decision. It said, in 
summary: 

It remains of the view that undue weight has been given to what Mrs F and her 
representative has said. 

Mrs F did not raise any concern with Creation for over two years.

In the absence of explanation or evidence regarding its origins, the telephone sales 
script referred to in the provisional decision is totally unreliable and should be 
disregarded.

It would invite me to consider two additional documents, namely the i-Power Code of 
Conduct and Charter document and the i-Power training manual. 

Whilst it “understands the persuasive nature of the RECC (Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code) report”, there is no suggestion that Mrs F’s case was considered at the RECC 
panel hearings. The outcome of the panel hearings doesn’t mean that every customer 
who purchased the system from i-Power was a victim of mis-selling.
However, Creation offered to settle the complaint by proposing an alternative remedy to the 
one I had suggested in my provisional decision. It asked me to consider that offer.  
The alternative proposal was put to Mrs F. She said that she is unwilling to accept the 
alternative proposal and would like to accept the remedy suggested in my provisional 
decision. Mrs F and her representative said, in summary:

Though Mrs F was initially willing to accept the settlement proposed by the investigator, 
on reflection, she is concerned about ongoing upkeep and maintenance of the system. It 
could cost her about £2,000 to £4,000, particularly as the inverter may need replacing on 
more than one occasion during the expected life of the solar panels. 

It is evident from the RECC panel determinations that there were systemic problems with 
i-Power even before Mrs F signed up for the solar panels. So Creation knew that the 
business it was accepting from i-Power was “toxic” and it was put on clear notice this 
was the case when these RECC panel decisions were published and put into the public 
domain. Creation had an obligation to monitor the business that it was accepting from i-
Power. If it failed to do this or carried it out in an ineffective manner then it must accept 
responsibility for the consequences.

The telephone script and sales presentation were provided by an ex i-Power sales 
representative. 
Creation responded further to state:
Ref: DRN7440028
2

There is nothing to suggest that Mrs F would need to replace the inverter at any point 
and, even if it was required, the cost of replacement should only be around £1,000. The 
ongoing maintenance costs to her should be negligible. 

Mrs F’s credit agreement is dated April 2014 and the earliest RECC report is dated June 
2014. Creation initiated the termination of its relationship with i-Power in September 
2014, completing the process in December 2014. This clearly demonstrates that it took 
decisive action once concerns about i-Power were brought to its attention. However 
these concerns do not demonstrate that mis-selling took place in every case where i-
Power was involved. Notwithstanding this, Creation has now made an offer which it 
believes is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
I considered the submissions made by both parties. I remained of the view that Mrs F’s 
complaint should succeed. However, I considered that the revised proposal set out by 
Creation is fair, subject to some modifications. Accordingly I wrote to both parties recently. I 
said, in summary:

The training manual provided to me by Creation also refers to “Self funding” as one of 
the benefits of solar panels. To me, this in fact adds to the weight of information / 
evidence already available which suggest that it was more likely than not that the 
salesperson led Mrs F to believe the solar panels would be self funding and come at no 
extra cost to her. 

The fact that Creation took action to terminate its relationship with i-Power following the 
RECC report suggests to me that Creation itself had some concerns about the way i-
Power sold the panels.

Unless the meeting between Mrs F and i-Power salesperson was recorded (and it was 
not), it would not be possible for me to know exactly what was discussed. So, I do have 
to look at all the other available evidence and information to decide what is more likely to 
have happened in this instance. Having done so, I do think that the cumulative weight of 
evidence and information presented to me is such that it is more likely that the i-Power 
salesperson misrepresented the benefits to Mrs F.

I also remain of the view, for the reasons already explained, that Mrs F was entitled to 
rely on what she was told by the salesperson in deciding whether or not she should enter 
into the purchase and the credit agreements.

Creation has questioned why Mrs F did not raise any concern with it for over two years 
since installation of the solar panels. Mrs F says that it took her some time to realise that 
the solar panels weren’t delivering the financial benefits and as soon as she realised it, 
she made her claim. 
Firstly it should be borne in mind that Mrs F has made her claim under s.75 well within 
six years of the sale. She also brought her complaint to us within the time limits permitted 
under our Dispute Resolution rules. So the fact that she brought up the issue with 
Creation or complained to us more than two years after the installation does not prevent 
her from making her claim or complaint. 
Also, it is not that straightforward to work out the exact benefits one could derive from the 
installation of solar panels. There are FiT payments to contend with and they are paid 
usually on a quarterly basis. Then there are savings from the use of the electricity 
Ref: DRN7440028
3
generated, but the savings that could be directly attributable to the solar panels are not 
easily evident from the energy bills. As I mentioned in my provisional decision, there are 
various other factors that affect the energy costs and so it is not easy to work out the 
savings that could solely be attributable to the solar panels. 
Indeed I see from the expert’s report provided by Creation, the author says on the first 
page: “Comparison of electricity bills before and after the installation of PV (and to a 
lesser extent FiT statements) is an extremely unreliable method of valuing the benefit of 
self-generation for a number of technical, behavioural and logistical reasons..”
So I have some sympathy with Mrs F’s position here. Having carefully considered the 
arguments from both sides and given the complexities involved in working out the true 
cost and benefit of the solar panels, I accept her explanation as what is most likely to 
have happened. I agree that there would come a point when a consumer ought to realise 
that the solar panels were clearly not giving them the benefits which they were led to 
expect. But I think in this instance, given the complexities, the time Mrs F took to do so is 
understandable.

I remain of the view that Mrs F has suffered a loss as a result of the misrepresentation 
by i-Power and as Creation has equal liability for the misrepresentation made by i 
Power, it is responsible for Mrs F’s loss. 

Arriving at fair compensation is not an exact science, particularly in instances like this 
where some predictions are needed. My aim is to put Mrs F as close to the position she 
would have been in but for the misrepresentation, taking into account her objectives at 
the time. And at the same time arrive at a remedy that is fair to both parties. 

I think that Mrs F’s complaint is not so much about solar panels themselves but that they 
were misrepresented to be self-funding. So by removing the effect of misrepresentation, 
this would put right the financial impact to Mrs F over the term of the loan. I think a fair 
and simple approach would have been to arrive at a reasonable estimate of the potential 
savings (and income) to Mrs F from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan and 
simply rework the loan such that she pays no more than that amount over that term; and 
she keeps the solar panel system.

I consider that Creation’s revised proposal more or less achieves this objective but for 
some adjustments. Firstly it should take into account actual figures to date in terms of 
electricity generation and FiT payments. The electricity tariff it used in the calculation 
should reflect Mrs F’s actual tariff. And it should also make an allowance for possible 
future deterioration.
Mrs F’s representative responded to say that as I have found that there has been a 
misrepresentation, Mrs F should be allowed to rescind the contract and in this regard it 
referred me to the Misrepresentation Act, 1967. But it said that if I determine that rescission 
is not appropriate, then a further adjustment to the proposed compensation methodology 
should be made, which is that the interest on potential excess payments should be 
calculated from the date of respective payments. 
Creation responded to say that in the interests of bringing this matter to a conclusion, it is 
willing to accept the proposal I have set out in my letter. It also accepted the proposal by 
Mrs F’s representative as to from when the interest should be paid and has reworked the 
total interest to be about £950. It did not agree with the proposal for full rescission.  
Ref: DRN7440028
4
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I remain of the view that 
Mrs F’s complaint should be upheld for the reasons given in my provisional decision and in 
my letter summarised above. 
I have taken into consideration Creation’s comments on the credibility of the evidence 
presented by Mrs F’s representative and the point that each complaint about i-Power should 
be considered on its own merits. In Mrs F’s case, the cumulative weight of evidence and 
information presented to me is such that I consider it more likely than not that i-Power 
salesperson misrepresented the benefits to Mrs F. I also remain of the view, for the reasons 
already explained, that Mrs F was entitled to rely on what she was told by the salesperson in 
deciding whether or not she should enter into the purchase and the credit agreements. And 
as Mrs F has suffered a loss as a result of the misrepresentation by i-Power and as 
Creation has equal liability for the misrepresentation made by i Power, it is responsible for 
Mrs F’s loss.
In relation to how Creation should put things right for Mrs F, I have considered her 
representative’s submission that the contract should be rescinded. A court might decide that 
Mrs F was entitled to rescind the purchase and credit agreements but my role here is to 
award what I consider to be fair compensation. I can also direct Creation to take such steps 
as I consider just and appropriate, whether or not a court could order those steps to be 
taken.  
As I have said previously, my aim is to put Mrs F as close to the position she would have 
been in but for the misrepresentation, taking into account her objectives at the time. In my 
view, Mrs F’s complaint is not so much about the solar panels themselves but that they were 
misrepresented to be self-funding. So removing the effect of that misrepresentation would 
put right the financial impact to Mrs F over the term of the loan. Further, both parties agree 
that it would cost Creation to remove the solar panels. So I don’t think it should be required 
to do that if it puts Mrs F in a position where the panels are self-funding. Allowing Mrs F to 
keep the panels may also enable her to benefit from lower electricity bills or FiT payments 
once the initial 10 year period has expired – as originally intended.
So I consider that a fair and simple approach is to arrive at a reasonable estimate of the 
potential savings (and income) to Mrs F from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan 
and simply rework the loan such that she pays no more than that amount over that term; and 
she keeps the solar panel system. 
I recognise that arriving at fair compensation is not an exact science, particularly in instances 
like this where some predictions are needed. But I remain of the view that my proposed 
approach would be fair overall, given the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mrs F’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Mrs F to keep the solar panels;
Ref: DRN7440028
5
(b) work out the potential estimated savings over the 10 year period as explained in my 
letter of 6 April 2018, using Mrs F’s actual electricity tariff and the actual figures which 
have been provided for the electricity generated by the panels. As I understand it, 
this works to about £3,500 or on an average, savings of just under £30 a month;
(c) work out how much Mrs F has paid towards the loan. As I understand it, Mrs F has 
paid a total of about £10,200. This includes monthly repayment of £105 and the final 
loan settlement amount of about £6,700.
(d) Thus the potential excess payment made by Mrs F works to about £6,700 (£10,200 
less £3,500). This should be refunded to Mrs F together with interest.
(e) Interest should be calculated at 8% simple per year. It should be calculated as if 
there have been monthly excess payments by Mrs F and a further excess payment 
on settlement of the loan. On the former, interest should be paid from the date of the 
monthly loan repayment to the date of payment of compensation. On the latter, 
interest should be paid from the date of settlement of the loan to the date of payment 
of compensation. 
(f) Pay £500 to Mrs F for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
The remedy requires reworking of the loan as opposed to cancellation of the loan from the 
outset. Also, I have not seen any submission to indicate that Mrs F’s credit has been 
adversely affected as a consequence of the loan. In the circumstances, it is reasonable that 
the loan agreement is not removed from her credit records but the records should reflect the 
correct position after the remedy has been effected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2018.
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7440028
6
copy of the provisional decision
complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s rejection of her claim against it under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
In April 2014, Mrs F received a cold call from i-Power Systems Ltd (“i-Power”), a company that 
supplied and installed solar photovoltaic micro-generation systems and she agreed that its salesman 
could visit her at home. 
During that home visit she agreed to enter into a contract with i-Power to supply and install a solar 
panel system costing £8,000. She also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan with Creation to 
fund this. The panels were installed soon after. 
In 2015 i-Power went into liquidation and in 2016 Mrs F made a claim to Creation under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). She said that the benefits of the solar panel system were 
misrepresented by i-Power. In particular, she said that i-Power told her that the solar panels would be 
self-funding but that isn’t the case. She said that instead, her monthly outgoings have actually 
increased which she is finding unaffordable. 
Creation said that, from the information available to it, it was unable to conclude that the solar panels 
were mis-sold or the benefits misrepresented. However, it said that during the year following 
installation, the actual electricity generated from the solar panels was less than what was estimated 
by i-Power by about 17%. On that basis it made an offer to Mrs F to reduce the total amount payable 
under the loan agreement by 25%. Mrs F did not agree.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. She said, in 
summary: 
The key documents given at the time of sale were not clear, were incorrect and/or misleading. So it 
needed a good verbal explanation by i-Power to make it clear to Mrs F what the terms of the 
agreement meant, including what the costs were vis-à-vis the benefits.
However Mrs F says that during the initial call i-Power told her that the solar panels would be self-
funding, which was reiterated by the salesman during his visit to her home. What she closely matches 
the script that i-Power was known to use. Having considered the available evidence, Mrs F’s version 
of events is compelling. So it was more likely than not that i-Power misrepresented the savings that 
could be achieved, and this misrepresentation induced Mrs F to enter into the contract with i-Power.
The investigator said that to put things right for Mrs F, Creation should: 

allow Mrs F to keep the solar panels;

repay Mrs F the settlement amount she paid when she redeemed the Creation loan (about £6,700);

pay Mrs F £500 to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused her and

remove any reference of the loan from the relevant credit reference agencies.
Creation did not accept the investigator’s proposed outcome. It said, in summary:

the ombudsman service cannot accept at face value allegations made by Mrs F’s representative, 
who has a financial interest in the outcome of the complaint, whilst giving little weight to the 
documentary evidence which contradicts or conflicts with those allegations.
Ref: DRN7440028
7

The contract, the solar panel system quotation and the customer satisfaction note all make it clear 
that the performance of the solar panels is impossible to predict with certainty and that the 
savings estimate is based on the government’s standard assessment procedure for energy rating 
of buildings (SAP). They also indicated that the savings figure was given as guidance only and 
the actual savings would vary according to the level of energy use.

The fixed sum loan agreement clearly sets out the loan terms. The agreement shows that annual 
loan repayment would be about £1,200. If Mrs F was told that the annual savings from the solar 
panels would be £600, it should have been clear that the monthly repayments due under the loan 
agreement would be much greater than the benefits arising from the system. 

The customer satisfaction note makes it clear that the estimate of the first year annual savings 
was significantly lower than the total of the credit payments under the same period and the 
estimate of savings quoted in any event was for guidance only. If it was given to Mrs F in May 
2014, after the installation, and she felt that the cost or benefits of the system had been 
misrepresented, why did she wait for a further two years before making her claim to Creation?

According to the information received from Mrs F, her annual electricity bill savings plus the feed-
in-tariff payment (‘FIT’) was about £800 a year. This was considerably in excess of the indication 
given by i-Power and what was stated in the customer satisfaction note. So there was no 
misrepresentation. If anything the benefits were understated by i-Power.
Mrs F accepted the investigator’s recommendation. In response to what Creation said, Mrs F’s 
representative told us, in summary:

The determinations of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code Non-Compliance Panel (‘RECC 
Panel’) dated 5 June 2014 and 10 December 2014 refer to systemic problems within i-Power 
which existed before Mrs F signed up to the agreement. Creation knew that ‘the business it was 
accepting from i-Power was toxic and was put on clear notice this was the case when these 
RECC decisions were published...’

Creation is liable for the acts and omissions by i-Power as a ‘connected lender’ under section 56 
and 75 of the CCA. It failed to monitor and audit the business that it was accepting from i-Power. 

It is not known how the solar panels would perform in the future or what the FIT would be over the 
next 20 years. So it is not right to say that Mrs F has not and would not suffer a loss. 

It generally takes consumers some time to realise that the solar panel systems were not 
delivering the financial benefits as promised and Mrs F made her claim as soon as she realised 
this. In any case she was within the time limits to refer her claim to Creation or to the ombudsman 
service. So the time she took should not affect the outcome.
Mrs F’s representative also provided several witness statements. These appear to be statements from 
various consumers who were also sold the solar panel systems by i-Power. In summary they say that 
i-Power misled them about the benefits of installing the system and their version of events is by and 
large similar to what Mrs F has told us.
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account: relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN7440028
8
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 and Section 75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Section 75 states: 
" If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.”.
As Mrs F paid for the solar panels through a fixed sum loan, 
As Mrs F paid for the solar panels through a fixed As Mrs F paid for the solar panels through a fixed 
Creation agrees that Section 75 applies to this transaction.  
This means Mrs F could claim against Creation - the creditor - for any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract by i-Power in the same way she could have claimed against i-Power, the supplier. So I have 
taken Section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of the case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This says that any negotiations between Mrs F and i-Power as the 
supplier are deemed to have been conducted by i-Power as agent for Creation. 
what happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - that is, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.  
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that it is more likely than not that Mrs F was told by i-
Power that the solar panel system would be self-funding and would come at no extra cost to her. In 
reaching my conclusion I have taken into account the following:
Firstly, I consider what Mrs F says to be credible. She says she was cold-called and was told that the 
installation would be entirely self-financing. There’s nothing to suggest that she had any prior interest 
in solar panels before she was approached by i-Power. It is difficult to see why she would agree for 
the installation of the solar panels financed through a loan that would significantly increase her 
monthly outgoings which, she says, has put her in financial difficulties. I think it is unlikely that she 
would have agreed unless she was led to believe that the installation would be self-funding and come 
at no extra financial burden to her.  
Secondly, there are other indicators that support what Mrs F says. For example, Mrs F’s 
representative has provided us with a copy of a sales presentation which it says was used by i-Power. 
Looking through the document, it seems clear to me that it was produced by
i-Power. I see that the presentation refers to data relating to 2013. So, I am also satisfied that it was 
produced in 2013 or thereafter. 
As stated above the salesperson met Mrs F in April 2014. Mrs F doesn’t say that she was shown this 
particular presentation However, given that this appears to have been used by 
i-Power around that time, I consider it more likely that its contents would have featured at the sales 
meeting, especially as some of the statements made in the presentation are similar to what Mrs F 
remembers being told.  
For example, where it discusses the funding through finance it says: “The remuneration received from 
the Feed In Tariff scheme will cover the monthly loan repayments meaning you literally have nothing 
to pay and never out of pocket”.
The presentation also specifies ‘guaranteed’ / ‘minimum’ return of 12% in different slides. It further 
says that this is a “Pay as you earn scheme - 100% Self funding finance scheme means you are 
never out of pocket”.
Ref: DRN7440028
9
To me this suggests that the solar panels were sold on the basis that the savings made from the 
panels would match the loan repayments during the term of the loan so that Mrs F was not ‘out of 
pocket’. This is consistent with what Mrs F claims she was told.
Mrs F’s representative has also given us a copy of the telephone sales script which it says was used 
by i-Power when it cold-called potential clients. I see that this is not disputed by Creation. In this there 
are a number of phrases that support Mrs F’s contention that she was told the solar panels would be 
self-funding. 
For example the script reads “…the energy trust have come up with a self-funding solar package. 
What this means is the energy trust will provide you with the finance and the system will more than 
pay off the loan, making the system self-funding. Once the finance is paid off you will still receive 70% 
off your electricity bill and a tax free index linked government guaranteed payment for a further 10 
years (20 yrs total).” This also suggests that the system would be self-funding over the term of the 
loan, and after the loan was paid off in 10 years, the system would continue to provide benefits.  
It further states that: “I assume free electricity and tax free income would be of interest to you”. 
Mrs F’s representative has also provided several witness statements, which it says are from 
consumers who were sold the solar panels by i-Power. I have taken into account the fact that these 
statements are all from consumers represented by the same representative and to that extent they 
have come to us from the same source. Also, I cannot be certain what actually happened in those 
cases. On the other hand however I cannot ignore the fact that what they say largely corroborates 
what Mrs F has told us. So I have given the statements limited weight.
Then there is the action taken by Renewable Energy Consumer Code (“RECC”). RECC got involved 
when it received several complaints against i-Power about the way it had acted in the sales process 
with various customers.  
As I understand it, RECC administers the renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its 
members comply with the Code. The RECC investigated i-Power’s conduct and
notified i-Power of its concerns at the end of April 2014. Notably there were concerns about i-Power 
using false or misleading information and the use of pressure selling. 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided that the allegations that consumers had been given 
misleading information about payment and payback were proved. It also decided that the allegation 
that consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the contract was also 
proved. The Panel therefore decided that i-Power was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which 
essentially required members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and 
Section 5.3 (which was about providing clear information to enable consumers to make an informed 
decision). It was concerned enough about i-Power’s culture and conduct to terminate its membership 
of RECC.
I acknowledge Creation’s submission that what happened in respect of those complaints may not 
necessarily have happened in Mrs F’s case. Whilst the RECC Panel’s findings are general and do not 
refer to Mrs F’s case, the findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas relevant to 
Mrs F’s complaint and at around the time she was sold the solar panel system and the loan.  
In fact the Panel noted in its decision: “The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that 
so many consumers appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one 
thing but the reality was different“ and that 
“There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that some consumers 
have been given false or misleading information before signing contracts. …  The Panel decided that 
a fundamental cultural change was needed within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness 
and breadth of the breaches upheld… [i-Power’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’” 
Ref: DRN7440028
10
I think that this information gives further support to Mrs F’s testimony.
Creation says that we cannot accept at face value accusations made by Mrs F’s representative 
because it has a financial interest in the outcome. I have taken this into account, but given the 
cumulative weight of evidence presented to me, I have concluded that it is more likely than not that 
the salesperson led Mrs F to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding and that the savings 
on a monthly basis would be sufficient to cover the repayments necessary under the loan agreement. 
what about the documentary evidence?
Creation says that due weight should also be given to the documentary evidence available at the 
time. 
It seems to me that of the documents that were provided to Mrs F at the time of sale, three are most 
relevant here: the i-Power contract, the fixed sum loan agreement and the quotation (Form 41).
I see from the copy of the i-Power contract that has been provided to us that this form contained a lot 
of technical details about the solar panel system. I am not persuaded that these would have been 
easily comprehensible to someone like Mrs F who had no prior experience of having solar panels. So 
I agree with the investigator that it would need a very good explanation from the salesperson to make 
Mrs F understand what these details meant. 
Further, it appears from the copy that some of the boxes like the ‘cost of electricity savings’ and ‘total 
savings and tariffs’ are blank. So I am not sure whether the form was complete in all respects. 
I also see that there is a section for Mrs F to initial which states “I fully understand how the SAP 
calculation was arrived at” and this does not appear to have been initialled.  
So, based on what I have seen, I consider that the form was incomplete and not readily 
comprehensible to someone like Mrs F. So I am not persuaded that on its own the form clearly 
highlighted to Mrs F the cost of installing the solar panels vis-à-vis the benefits she could expect to 
receive - in such a way that she was in an informed position to make a decision about buying the 
solar panel system.   
Indeed, I note that in response to the investigator’s opinion, Creation has accepted that “the SAP 
calculations within the document are not particularly clear or helpful.”
Creation however goes on to say that this is not relevant as “there is no reference within those 
calculations to the cost of the system or to the potential financial benefits of the system.” 
But this document is the ‘contract’ between Mrs F and i-Power. So, it is not unreasonable to expect 
that it contains information key to the contract. And if it is not comprehensible to 
Mrs F or is incomplete in any way, then it is not unreasonable for her to rely on what she was told by 
the salesperson.
 
Creation has also pointed to us certain wording in the contract which said:  “The performance of 
Solar PV systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to the variability in the amount of 
solar radiation (sunlight) from location to location and from year to year.   The estimate is based on 
the government’s standard assessment procedure for energy rating of buildings (SAP) and is given 
as guidance only.   It should not be considered as a guarantee of performance."  Creation has 
pointed out to similar wording in the quotation and the customer satisfaction note as well. 
I consider that this is a ‘standard’ warning that states that the performance of the solar panels is not 
predictable. Whilst it is inferable from the statement that the savings could vary depending on the 
performance of the solar panel, I do not think that Mrs F could have understood from this statement 
that the system would not be self-funding as she was led to believe. 
Ref: DRN7440028
11
Another document provided to me is Creation’s fixed sum loan agreement. As noted by the 
investigator, whilst it provides details in relation to the loan agreement Mrs F was entering into, it does 
not provide any information about the potential savings she could make either in the first or 
subsequent years or a comparison of the cost and the savings. 
Creation has also referred us to the quotation (Form 41). This form simply provides the total cost of 
solar panels. There is no information in the form about the likely savings or her potential costs over 
time. So again I consider that this document was inadequate for the purpose of clearly explaining to 
Mrs F what she is signing up to and/or counteracting any misrepresentations made by the 
salesperson. 
Creation has also referred us to the ‘Customer satisfaction note’. But this was not provided to Mrs F at 
the point of sale. This was provided to her much later, and after the cooling off period both for the 
installation work and loan agreement had expired. 
As set out above, I have concluded that it is more likely than not that, at the time of sale, 
i-Power told Mrs F that the solar panels would be self-funding and could be installed at no extra cost 
to her. I then need to consider whether it was reasonable for Mrs F - when deciding to enter into the 
contract - to rely on that representation or whether she should not have done so, given the documents 
provided to her at the time. I have also considered whether the documents provided to her at that time 
were sufficiently clear to correct any misrepresentation made by the salesperson. So I have to use 
care in giving consideration to this particular document, which was given to her after the sale and the 
loan was agreed. 
Nevertheless, I note that the key purpose of the document was to obtain confirmation from Mrs F that 
the work was carried out to a satisfactory standard so that Creation could release outstanding monies 
under the loan agreement. Although it says that the requirement to make repayments of the loan was 
not affected by the benefits generated from the solar panels, it does not show the repayments due 
under the loan agreement. It would therefore not have been easy for Mrs F to compare the two. At 
this stage, I don’t think Mrs F had enough information to appreciate that the salesperson had 
misrepresented the benefits of the system, compared to the costs.  
Secondly, as noted by the investigator, the savings figure provided in the document appears to be 
incorrect and so cannot be relied on. The export tariff calculation assumes that 100% of the 
electricity generated would be exported. But that can’t be right as the calculation also assumes 
that 50% of the electricity produced would be consumed by Mrs F.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the documents provided to Mrs F were unclear, 
incorrect and were presented in such a way that it would be difficult for Mrs F to make an informed 
decision from the documents without reliance on what the salesperson told her. So I consider it 
reasonable that Mrs F relied on what she was told by the salesperson at the time of sale. 
was the solar panel system self-funding at no extra cost to Mrs F?
In my view, for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no extra cost to Mrs F, the monthly 
savings she would achieve ought to have been sufficient to pay the repayments necessary under the 
loan agreement. But did that happen?
Mrs F’s expected savings and incomes from the solar panels were due essentially from: 
(1) expected generation tariff income
(2) expected export tariff income and 
(3) savings to Mrs F to the extent she uses the electricity generated by the panels instead of buying it 
from the energy company.
Ref: DRN7440028
12
Creation’s representative told us that this figure for the first year was around £800 made up of: (1) 
electricity savings of £600 and (2) first year’s actual FIT incomes of about £200.  
The first point to note here is that, even if this figure is correct, the loan repayments were about 
£1,200 per year and so the solar panels were not self-funding – there was a significant shortfall of 
£400  per year.
I see that the figure of £600 is simply a difference between two ‘annual projections’ made by Mrs F’s 
energy company. In May 2014 the energy company estimated that Mrs F’s electricity bill for the 
following year would be about £1,000. This was around the time the panels were installed. So it is not 
entirely clear whether this estimate took that into account. Then in May 2015 the energy company 
estimated that Mrs F’s electricity bill for the following year would be about £400.
Creation says that this shows Mrs F had a first year savings of £600 as a result of installation of the 
solar panels, but I am not persuaded by that argument.
Firstly, neither of these figures was available to i-Power when it sold the solar panels. In fact, the 
second figure was only available a year later. Secondly, the energy company’s figures were estimated 
savings at that point in time. But we now know the actual figures. So if Creation would like to check 
the first year savings in hindsight then it should use the actual figures. On that basis, I see that Mrs 
F’s actual energy cost during the year following solar panel installation was about £600 and not £400. 
But that is not all. Any change to the energy cost after installation cannot necessarily be attributed to 
the solar panels. Any change in Mrs F’s consumption or any change in the unit price will also affect 
the energy cost. Thus, other things being equal, if Mrs F used less electricity during the period after 
installation than what she would normally have done, that would also result in a reduction of energy 
cost. But that was simply because Mrs F used less energy not because of the solar panels. 
Taking all of the above into account, I am not persuaded that Creation’s figure of £800 is a fair 
reflection of likely potential savings to Mrs F from the installation of solar panels. 
I think that at the time of sale, the first year estimate as calculated using SAP 2009 would have been 
a reasonable indicator of the likely savings achievable by Mrs F from the solar panels. And though the 
estimate would have been for the first year only, I think that this is unlikely to overstate the 
performance of future years. If anything the performance of the panels was likely to deteriorate over 
time. Indeed it seems that is what happened in this case (see later). 
I see that this information is available in the customer satisfaction note. It shows  
that the estimated electricity generation during the first year would be about 1,800kWh each year. 
This gave an estimated generation tariff income of about £260. 
As regards the export tariff income, as noted by the investigator, Creation made a calculation error 
in the customer satisfaction note. It assumed that 100% of electricity generated would be exported, 
but that was highly unlikely because Mrs F would consume some generated electricity. 
So, assuming that 50% of the electricity generated would be exported (as per the assumption used in 
the SAP), the estimated export tariff income would be about £45. 
Using the same approach, if we assume that 50% of the electricity produced would be consumed by 
Mrs F, that figure would be about 900kWh. Using Creation’s assumed electricity price of 16p per kWh, 
the estimated savings on Mrs F’s electricity bill would be about £145. 
Thus the total estimated savings and income in the first year using SAP 2009 would be about £450 
(£260+£45+£145).
On the other hand Mrs F’s loan repayment was about £1,200. This means Mrs F was likely to be out 
of pocket by about £800 in the first year and that would broadly have been the situation during the 
Ref: DRN7440028
13
term of the loan. This meant that, even based on this estimate, the system was clearly not self-
funding as Mrs F had been led to believe. In fact if we consider the actual performance (as shown 
later), the difference is even bigger.  
Overall I have not seen any evidence to suggest that i-Power had a reasonable basis for saying that 
the solar panels would be self-funding and would come at no extra cost to Mrs F.
what would Mrs F have done if she’d been provided with the correct information?
I consider that i-Power should have clearly set out the savings Mrs F was likely to make and that 
though she would make some savings, her monthly loan repayments would be considerably higher 
than the potential savings. 
As noted above, and assuming that the estimates were right and the savings continued at that 
level for the life of the loan agreement, Mrs F would have paid about £800 extra every year for 10 
years.
After the loan was paid off, based on the same savings assumptions, it would have taken Mrs F a 
further 18 years simply to recover this excess £8000 (£8000 / £450).
If we allow for the lost interest to Mrs F by making this excess payment of £8000, then it would take 
few more years to break even. That means it could have taken in total around 30 years for her to 
simply re-coup her excess payment.  
But that is assuming she would get the estimated savings from the solar panels throughout these 
years, but that is not guaranteed. Even in the very first year the savings was less than predicted by 
about 17%. This not only impacted her electricity savings but also the FIT income she received. 
And if we do the calculation based on the first year’s actual generated electricity, the breakeven 
point goes well past 30 years. 
So the question for me is had Mrs F been made aware that there would be considerable financial 
burden to her for 10 years and then it would take nearly another 20 years to simply re-coup the 
excess payment, would she have agreed to purchase the solar panel system and the finance? 
I have already noted that Mrs F had no prior interest in solar panels. I consider it unlikely that she 
would have installed the panels without i-Power selling them to her. I am also persuaded that the 
reason why she agreed to the installation was because she thought it would benefit her at no cost 
to her. 
So, on balance, I consider that if Mrs F had been provided the correct information, she would not 
have agreed to install solar panels or enter into the loan agreement on the terms that she did.
In this regard I have considered Creation’s argument that the loan agreement shows that the 
repayment would be about £1,200 and if Mrs F was told by the salesperson that the savings from the 
solar panels would be £600, it should have been clear to her that the monthly repayments due under 
the loan agreement was much greater than the benefits arising from the system. 
Mrs F has said, through her representatives, that she was promised tax free benefit of about £600  
but it was not explained or understood by her that after making monthly loan repayments there would 
be no savings. So it is possible that Mrs F thought that she would make the savings after making the 
loan repayments. 
I have to bear in mind that Mrs F had no prior experience about the solar panel system. She got an 
unsolicited visit by i-Power and everything was discussed at a short meeting, and there were plenty of 
technical information. Also, there were several documents, which as I have previously noted, did not 
go far enough to make things clear. So I can see the possibility that Mrs F was overwhelmed by it all, 
could not understand the different figures that she was given and therefore relied on what the 
Ref: DRN7440028
14
salesperson told her. I do not think that Mrs F would have entered into the agreement had she 
realised that it could take her a very long time before she could re-coup her cost. 
Ultimately, I am satisfied that Mrs F decided to purchase the system relying on the representation 
made by i-Power that the system would be self-funding. I have, for the reasons given, concluded that 
i-Power more likely than not misrepresented the benefits. So it follows that Creation is liable for that 
misrepresentation. I have not seen any persuasive reason as to why that should not be the case.
has Mrs F suffered a loss?
For the reasons I have already explained, I find that Mrs F has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation by i-Power. As noted by the investigator, notwithstanding that the estimated figures 
were inaccurate, the system was not self-funding. Mrs F ended up paying a significant sum over the 
savings. In fact, as I note later, the difference is much higher when the actual performance is 
taken into account. And as Creation has equal liability for the misrepresentation made by i-Power, I 
find that it is responsible for Mrs F’s loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs F in the 
position she would have been in but for the misrepresentation by i-Power. 
The investigator felt that a fair remedy would be for Creation to cancel the outstanding loan 
(outstanding as at the time she issued her opinion) and let Mrs F keep the solar panels. That way 
Creation would keep all the repayments Mrs F made to that date whilst she would get to keep any 
future savings she may make from the solar panels. To put simply, she suggested both parties ‘walk 
away’ from the agreement without having to do anything further.
As it turned out, Mrs F had already settled the loan. So the investigator amended her proposed 
redress and said that Creation should repay Mrs F the settlement amount she paid when she 
redeemed the loan. The rest of her recommendation remained the same.
Whilst the investigator’s proposed solution was acceptable to Mrs F, it wasn’t acceptable to 
Creation. It said that the recommendation seeks to allow Mrs F keep the solar panel system at less 
than 50% of its cost as well as continue to benefit from energy savings and FIT payments - which it 
considered is not a fair and reasonable outcome.
Our role is to help settle individual disputes between consumers and businesses providing 
financial services - fairly, reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation is not 
an exact science. Here, my aim is to arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome that would put Mrs 
F, as far as possible, in the position she would have been in if i-Power had not misrepresented the 
position.
I think it is also important that any remedy ensures that, as far as possible, Mrs F isn’t left in a position 
of financial loss. This is because, in my view, but for i-Power’s misrepresentation 
Mrs F would not have entered into this transaction at all and so would not have suffered any loss due 
to it.
To that extent I can see what the investigator has tried to do here. In making her recommendation 
the investigator took into account that over time Mrs F would recoup the loss she has already incurred 
because of the mis-match between the finance repayments and the savings and may start to benefit 
from the solar panels. On the other hand, Creation would also benefit because it would get to keep 
the repayments Mrs F already made. And importantly it wouldn’t have to incur the cost of removing 
the solar panel system, which could be significant. 
So this would have been a simple, quick and informal remedy that would have also most likely 
ensured that Mrs F did not suffer a financial loss.
Ref: DRN7440028
15
 
However, Creation has not accepted the proposed remedy. It argues in effect that Mrs F would 
benefit too much if the proposed remedy was implemented. I understand its argument but I do not 
think that its original proposal of reducing the loan by 25% is sufficient compensation given the 
significant difference between the savings Mrs F made and her loan repayments.
I think a fair and simple approach would have been to arrive at a reasonable estimate of the 
potential savings (and income) to Mrs F from the panels over the 10 year term of the loan and 
simply rework the loan such that she pays no more than that amount over that term; and she keeps 
the solar panel system. 
I think that Mrs F’s complaint is not so much about solar panels themselves but that they were 
misrepresented to be self-funding. So by removing the effect of misrepresentation, this would put right 
the financial impact to Mrs F over the term of the loan. On the other hand, Creation wouldn’t have to 
incur the cost of removing the solar panel system.
However, it seems that this approach may not be viable here. Firstly, Mrs F has already settled the 
loan - well before the end of the 10 year term. And she has settled the loan by taking another loan 
with a different provider with a different set of terms and conditions. Also, as I understand it, her new 
loan not only includes the payment she made to Creation to settle their loan but also a loan she had 
taken for a different purpose. Thus, whilst her loss in the Creation loan could be quantified, I can’t 
see that a simple remedy could be reached when considering that her solar panel loan debt now 
sits in an agreement with a separate lender under different terms. 
In the circumstances and in the absence of any other reasonable proposal that would ensure that 
Mrs F does not suffer a financial loss, I think that the fair resolution would be for Creation to:
 

remove the solar panels from Mrs F’s property at no cost to her; 

refund all the payments Mrs F has made towards the loan, together with interest. Interest should 
be 8% simple per year. It should be calculated from the date of each payment by Mrs F to the 
date of payment of the compensation.  

However I consider that allowance should be made for the savings Mrs F has had due to the 
installation of the panels. I have already referred to the first year estimated saving of £450 using 
SAP. However we now have the actual performance figures and so I consider it appropriate to 
use that information. Using that information shows that Mrs F’s average annual savings and 
income was about £300. 
Whilst the average savings of £300 is an approximate figure only, I think it is a better figure to use 
than the initial estimate of £450, as it is based on actual performance. 
So from the refund figure arrived at, a deduction should be made at £300 a year from the date of 
installation to the date of settlement or date of removal of solar panels whichever is earlier. 

remove any reference of the loan from the relevant credit reference agencies. As I said, it is 
more likely that had Mrs F been provided the correct information, she would not have agreed to 
install solar panels or enter into the loan agreement. So I consider it reasonable that Creation 
should remove any reference to the loan.
I am aware that Mrs F has now effectively transferred her outstanding loan balance with Creation to 
another lender and has been paying interest on that loan. So I recognise an allowance should be 
made for that too. However I consider that the interest I have awarded above adequately covers this 
payment and so I am not making any further award in this regard.
Ref: DRN7440028
16
Mrs F’s representative says that Creation failed to comply with the provisions of FCA’s Consumer 
Credit sourcebook (CONC). In particular it says that Creation failed to consider whether the loan was 
affordable and sustainable to Mrs F. 
As I understand it, Mrs F has been able to make the required repayments under the loan until she 
redeemed it recently. So, on the face of it, it does not appear that the loan was unaffordable to the 
extent that she was unable to service it. Nevertheless, as my proposed remedy is to unwind the loan 
entirely, I consider this matter has been addressed in any case. 
Having said that, Mrs F incurred substantially additional cost compared to the benefits she received. I 
recognise that clearly would have caused distress and inconvenience to her. As the investigator said, 
Mrs F had to find additional money each month to repay the loan. Also I can see that the fact that the 
panels did not produce enough benefits to cover this cost must have been a distressing experience 
for her. And if my final determination is that the solar panels be removed from her home, then it is 
possible that she would also have to go through the trouble of having the panels removed.
Taking all of the above into account I consider that a payment of £500 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused to Mrs F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint.
 
my provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should receive from either party by 6 February 2018, my
provisional decision is that this complaint should be upheld. 
In full and final settlement of it, I am minded to require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

work out the payments Mrs F has made towards the loan. Add interest on these amounts at 8% 
simple per year. Interest should be added from the date of respective payments by Mrs F to the 
date of payment of compensation. 
From the figure so arrived at, deduct an amount to allow for the savings Mrs F has made from the 
solar panels. This should be calculated at £300 a year from the date of installation to the date of 
payment of compensation or date of removal of the panels whichever is earlier. 
Pay the resultant amount to Mrs F

remove the solar panels from Mrs F’s property at no cost to her

remove any reference to the loan from the relevant credit reference agencies

Pay Mrs F £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
Raj Varadarajan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7440028
