K820x#11
complaint
Mr M complains about his application for credit through Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
being declined. 
background
When shopping for a new laptop it was suggested by the retailer that Mr M should consider 
purchasing the laptop on a hire purchase agreement. Mr M agreed but his application was 
declined. Mr M says he has a very good credit record and is unhappy that his application 
was declined. He wants Creation to apologise for the affect this had on his reputation and 
the inconvenience it has caused. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service after complaining to Creation. His complaint was 
considered by an adjudicator, but she did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
explained that it was for businesses to decide who they would lend to and this was down to 
their commercial judgement. She noted that Creation did say why the application had been 
declined but that it was not required to give a detailed explanation. 
Mr M remained unhappy with the adjudicator’s findings and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall conclusions as the adjudicator for what are broadly the same reasons. 
Credit providers are entitled to use their commercial judgement when making lending 
decisions. We would not usually seek to interfere with a bank’s lending decision, unless 
there has been a mistake in assessing the application. It is not for me or this service to 
therefore say who a credit provider should lend to. 
Creation has provided a reasonable explanation as to why Mr M’s application for the hire 
purchase agreement was declined. I appreciate Mr M is unhappy with this response but 
Creation is not obliged to provide any additional or more detailed explanation.
I fully understand Mr M’s strength of feeling and his disappointment about not being granted 
credit. But after careful consideration, I do not find that Creation has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not granting the credit. I find that Creation exercised its legitimate 
commercial judgement in declining to lend the money and there are no grounds to instruct 
Creation to do anything more than it has already done. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award or instruction 
against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796946
