K821x#15
complaint
Mrs H says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her six payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mrs H took out six loans between 2005 and 2010. Creation sold Mrs H PPI polices alongside 
each of the loans. Mrs H borrowed extra to pay for the policies, which were added to the 
loans and attracted interest. The policies gave Mrs H personal accident, hospitalisation and 
life cover. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs H’s complaint. She thought that Creation shouldn’t have sold the 
policies to Mrs H without pointing out to her that they wouldn’t meet her needs because of 
her health problems. Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mrs H enough information about the 
policy exclusions so that she could make an informed choice.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mrs H’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs H’s complaint.
Based on the evidence I’ve seen I don’t think Creation recommended the policies to Mrs H. 
This means it didn’t have to make sure the policies were right for her needs and 
circumstances. But it did have to give Mrs H enough clear information about the policies so 
that she could make an informed decision about whether she wanted to buy them. 
The policies didn’t cover medical conditions that a person had when they bought them. Mrs 
H had a number of health problems when she took out the policies. So I think the policies 
wouldn’t have covered the most likely reason she would’ve had to claim on them. That 
means the policies were worth a lot less to her. Creation should’ve clearly pointed this out to 
Mrs H, so she could decide if she wanted the policy or not. And I don’t think Creation did that 
well enough.
Creation hasn’t been able to give us a recording of its sales calls with Mrs H. But it has given 
us a copy of the call script that it says would’ve been used by its sales advisers when it sold 
the policies to Mrs H. So I’ve looked at this to help me reach my decision. I’ve also looked at 
the paperwork from the time of the sale, which includes Mrs H’s signed loan agreements and 
policy documents.
I can see from looking at the call script that Creation would’ve told Mrs H that the policy had 
exclusions and that ‘generally you will not be covered for anything that you knew about prior 
to taking the cover, or any circumstances which were within your control. So for example you 
will not be covered for hospitalisation or personal injury due to pre-existing medical 
conditions.’ But it doesn’t look like there would’ve been any further discussion or explanation 
about it.
Ref: DRN7885658
2
According to the script Creation wouldn’t have told Mrs H that the policy didn’t provide 
hospitalisation cover where the claim related to any pre-existing medical condition (PEMC) 
unless a person had ‘been symptom free and has not consulted a doctor or received 
treatment for the condition in the 24 months prior to your claim.’ And it didn’t tell Mrs H 
benefit wouldn’t be paid for ‘any claim due to or arising from any pre-existing medical 
condition – any condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or 
associated symptoms whether diagnosed or not’. So I don’t think Creation made the extent 
of this exclusion clear to Mrs H.
Creation says following its phone calls with Mrs H, it would’ve sent her a policy summary. 
And that it was Mrs H’s responsibility to review the information within the summaries to 
decide whether the policies were right for her. But Creation has also told us that a policy 
summary would’ve only been sent to Mrs H after she’d agreed to take out the policies.  
Even if I accept Mrs H did see the policy summaries, I don’t think the exclusions relating to 
PEMC’s were made clear to her. I accept that the policy summary does mention that 
PEMC’s are excluded under the policies. But this was in small closely worded text and Mrs H  
would’ve only been able to establish the exclusion by cross-referencing the definitions 
section of the policy document with that relating to the exclusions. So I think this information 
could’ve easily been missed by Mrs H.  
I don’t think this was good enough to meet her information needs. In any case, it appears 
Mrs H made her decision to take the policies out during her phone calls with Creation. So it 
was at that point her attention should’ve been drawn to the policy exclusions so that she 
could make a properly informed choice. And for the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t think 
Creation did this well enough.
I think this exclusion is something that would’ve been important to Mrs H and would’ve 
affected her decision to take out the policies. I say this because Mrs H has told us she had a 
number of health problems, which included chronic conditions, before she took out the 
policies. Mrs H’s health problems were serious, likely to worsen and could lead to other 
conditions. So I think it would’ve been difficult for Mrs H to make a claim. And I think when 
she agreed to take out the policy, given the nature of her conditions; she might’ve thought 
any future stay in hospital could well be because of her PEMC’s or something related to 
them.
In summary, if Creation had made Mrs H aware of this important aspect of the policies, 
I don’t think she’d have taken them out. This is because she’d have realised she couldn’t 
claim for her medical conditions. This means she’s lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong when it sold the policies and it should put this right
I recognise the policies also provided life and personal accident cover. But in order to benefit 
from this Mrs H would need to die or lose her sight or a limb (or lose use of a limb) because 
of an accident. So I think she might’ve thought the circumstances in which she was likely to 
benefit from these elements of the cover were limited.
what Creation should do to put things right
Subject to Mrs H agreeing to cancel any PPI policy that was mis-sold and is still in force 
Creation should:
(A) In respect of each loan:
Ref: DRN7885658
3

recalculate the loan and the payments to what they would have been if Mrs H had taken 
the loans without PPI;  

repay to Mrs H the amounts by which the payments actually made exceeded the 
recalculated payments;

pay Mrs H interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid;

recalculate the balance that would have been outstanding at the end of each loan had 
the recalculated loan not included PPI.
(B) calculate how much of the balance that was carried forward to the subsequent loan 
related to the cost of the PPI policy taken out for the previous loan; and

repay to Mrs H all amounts paid under each subsequent loan in respect of the carried 
forward balance, including interest and charges;

pay Mrs H interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid.
(C) where the most recent loan is still in force and it includes the cost of the most recent PPI 
policy and/or any balance carried forward from the cost of previous PPI policies, Creation 
should restructure the loan or arrange for the loan to be restructured so that the balance 
is reduced to the level that it would have been if it had not included any of the costs of 
the mis-sold PPI policies.
Set out in writing for Mrs H details of the calculations under (A), (B) and (C).  † I understand 
Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. Whether Mrs H 
needs to take any further action will depend on her financial circumstances. More information 
about the tax position can be found on our website. Mrs H should refer back to Creation if she is 
unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if 
they want to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs H’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay her compensation as set out in this decision. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my 
decision before 29 March 2016.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7885658
