K820x#11
complaint
Mr J complains that he took out a loan with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd believing the 
interest rate was 11.9% Annual Percentage Rate of charge (APR), because this was how it 
was advertised – but the rate was in fact 16.9% APR. He wants the interest rate on his loan 
to be changed to 11.9% APR.
background
Mr J said that he received a letter from Creation offering a loan at 11.9% APR, and also saw 
online advertising by Creation offering the same rate. He completed an application process 
and took out a loan in November 2011, and then complained to Creation that the interest 
rate it had set for this loan was 16.9% APR. 
Creation sent a final response letter to Mr J, saying:

Its promotional advertising clearly explained that the APR figure was only 
representative

He had signed a legally binding loan agreement, where the interest rate was listed as 
16.9% APR

It was unable to conclude that any error had been made by Creation, and so it could 
not uphold his complaint   
Mr J referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our adjudicator said that 
he had looked at the loan agreement, and could not conclude that the loan had been mis-
represented to Mr J. Therefore, he did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr J disagreed with our adjudicator, and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find that I have come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator, for the same reasons.
I sympathise with Mr J. Like our adjudicator, I can see how it was possible that he believed 
he would receive the 11.9% interest rate when applying for the loan. But both the pre-
contract information and the actual loan agreement clearly show the interest rate as 16.9% 
APR. Our adjudicator noted that Mr J signed the agreement, and Mr J has not disputed this 
point – so, he is bound by it.  
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7030115
