K820x#14
complaint
Miss L complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) declined her application for
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) and hasn’t given her a reasonable explanation for its decision.
background
Miss L applied to CCF, in store to buy a fridge, for a BNPL agreement. Her application was 
declined.
When Miss L asked for information to help her understand why CCF had taken that decision 
she wasn’t satisfied with CCF’s response as it didn’t give her a specific reason.
Miss L referred her complaint to us. Our investigator said CCF was entitled to keep 
commercially sensitive information about its lending criteria private. But that Miss L’s 
application had been declined on information that wasn’t correct. He said Miss L should have 
been told this, as the declined application had caused her some considerable upset, and she 
was now worried about any future applications she might make. He said CCF should pay 
£150 for the trouble and upset Miss L had experienced.
CCF didn’t agree as it said it had followed its processes correctly and had given Miss L 
sufficient information about why her application had been declined. CCF has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
Miss L reiterated her complaint that she hadn’t been given a reason for her application being 
declined. And she wanted the search removed from her credit file.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019 which said:
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how frustrating this situation must be for Miss L and I understand why she wants a 
better understanding of CCF’s lending decision – she has a good credit score and receives a 
regular income. I know this will be disappointing for Miss L but my current thinking is that I’m 
not upholding this complaint and I’ll explain why.
It isn’t the role of our service to insist that credit should be provided when an application is 
made. As ultimately the decision to bear the risk of the lending has to sit with the lender. And 
a business must undertake a reasonable assessment of the credit worthiness of a customer 
before entering into a regulated credit agreement, as was the case here with Miss L’s BNPL 
application.
Banks and other financial institutions have a legitimate interest in making sure they’re able to 
properly identify who’s applying to them for credit. And they have developed systems to try 
to identify fraudulent activity. But those systems sometimes also identify legitimate 
applications as potentially fraudulent.
Miss L’s application for credit was legitimate and it will have been embarrassing and 
frustrating for her to have had her application for credit declined. But it’s a commercial 
decision for a lender as to whether or not it lends money to a customer – and there’s no 
requirement for it to explain the specific reason for its decision to the customer.
Ref: DRN7422751
2
But it should give the applicant an indication as to the reason why.
When Miss L asked CCF the reason why her application was declined it said its “final score 
was below our acceptance level”. But this didn’t set Miss L’s mind at rest as she was baffled 
as to why this would be given her credit history.
But CCF’s did go on to say:
“There are many reasons why applications are declined such as; no/different 
information on the voters roll, adverse bureau information on credit files, employment 
status, low income etc.”
Although CCF didn’t give a specific reason it did try to explain the reasons behind her 
decline. And CCF wouldn’t have told Miss L the exact reason for the decline. As, potentially 
if the reason was known, changes could be made by an applicant. This is for safeguarding 
purposes, as outlined above as not all applications are legitimate.
I can understand why Miss L has been left feeling so frustrated by the process. Our 
investigator when dealing with CCF did find out that the information entered on Miss L’s 
application wasn’t correct. And so when CCF did its credit worthiness check the information 
input didn’t correlate, so its system generated an automated decline.
CCF has said its process is for the retailer to double check the information is correct with the 
applicant. I can’t know what happened on that day so I can’t hold CCF responsible for 
making its assessment on the information that was entered. But the decline was most likely 
the result of the retailer recording Miss L’s details incorrectly.
Miss L wanted a more detailed explanation as she posed little risk and believes she should 
have received the credit. But as I’ve said above, it’s the business in these situations that 
bears the risk. And the decision should sit with them to make this. I haven’t seen anything 
which has indicated that CCF hasn’t done this fairly or not in line with its process.
CCF has also agreed to remove the record of the search made when Miss L applied for the 
credit from her credit file. So I won’t be asking it do anything more in this case.
I hope by now knowing what went wrong on the day will give Miss L some piece of mind 
should she make any further applications for credit. But as I don’t think CCF acted unfairly I 
don’t think it is fair or reasonable for me to ask CCF to pay any compensation to Miss L.
responses to my provisional decision
CCF agreed with the provisional decision and confirmed it had requested the amendment to 
be made to Miss L’s credit file.
Miss L didn’t agree with the provisional decision and said 

it wasn’t acceptable for a person with an exemplary credit record to be turned down 
for credit without being told the reason why – especially when it was a clerical error;

CCF should accept when its made a mistake and right that mistake by explaining 
why the credit was refused; and  
Ref: DRN7422751
3

didn’t accept that CCF had given her an indication of why she had been refused 
credit.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I’m not persuaded to 
change my decision, I’ll explain why.
I can understand why Miss L is frustrated by what has happened. Its clear Miss L’s date of 
birth was input incorrectly. And the relevant guidance does say that CCF will be responsible 
for the acts and omissions of its appointed representatives. 
But as I outlined in my provisional decision CCF’s process is for any information to be double 
checked with the applicant at the time. I can’t know for sure what happened on the day, and I 
can’t know if CCF’s process was followed by its representative or not. So, I don’t think it was 
unfair for CCF to base its decision on the belief its process had been followed and that the 
information had been correctly given and confirmed by Miss L.
I know Miss L feels she should have had a fuller explanation as to why she’d been refused. 
And I think this explanation would have prevented the need for Miss L to bring a complaint. 
But it’s a commercial decision for a lender as to whether or not it lends money to a customer 
– and there’s no requirement for it to explain the specific reason for its decision to the 
customer. But it should give the applicant an indication as to the reason why.
Miss L doesn’t think CCF has given this indication, but as I said in my provisional decision 
CCF explained her score was below its acceptance level, and went on to explain some 
reasons why this would be. So I think this does give Miss L an indication of its reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7422751
