K821x#15
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to him.
background
In 2006, Mr C bought some goods in a shop and he took out a £1,248 (excluding interest) 
loan to pay for it. At the same time, Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £509.25 
(excluding interest), which was added to the loan and attracted interest. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr C wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £625.98 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr C’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr C would’ve bought the policy if it 
had done so.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr C was given would 
have given him enough information about the cost of the policy.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr C’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr C’s complaint because Creation didn’t properly tell Mr C how much 
the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the credit 
agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Mr C to work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. So it wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr C would expect it to be. And I can’t 
be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying a Hi-Fi system – not on insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr C to understand what the policy was costing 
him.

The information on the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr C aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months, the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 32.4%. This meant Mr C would pay a substantial extra amount of 
Ref: DRN7396862
2
interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr C was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr C would’ve seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a small amount over a fairly short term.

I don’t think Mr C would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I’ve decided to uphold Mr C’s complaint.
what Creation should do to put things right
Mr C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. So Mr C needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr C the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr C paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on†.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained I’ve decided to uphold Mr C’s complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay him compensation as set out in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2016.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7396862
