K821x#14
complaint
Mrs S complains that the furniture she obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Before Mrs S signed the loan agreement, she says she asked the salesperson whether there 
would be any dye transfer from clothing to the furniture. She was told to use a particular 
product which would stop any dye transfer and, on this basis, she went ahead with the 
agreement. Around five months later she complained that the colour of the furniture had 
faded and a month after that she complained that dye from clothing had transferred onto the 
furniture, even though she had used the recommended product.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that the 
furniture provided was not as described and not of satisfactory quality, as evidenced by the 
independent report paid for by Mrs S. She thought Creation should remove the furniture free 
of charge, terminate the agreement with no further payments due, pay Mrs S £50 to cover 
the cost of the independent report and pay her £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Creation responded by paying for its own independent report which said, in summary, that 
the furniture was free from defects and that the discolouration was caused by dye transfer, 
not by any fault with the furniture itself.
 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs S has the right to claim against 
Creation, as the provider of credit, for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the furniture.
Each party to this complaint has arranged its own independent report. Some aspects of the 
reports are contradictory. One says “the overall condition of the furniture’s finish and colour 
are free from defects”; whereas the other says that there is “scaring” to the seats due to the 
use of “uncorrected hides” and that “there is some fading on some of the leather surfaces on 
the arms in particular“.
But both reports are in agreement that the furniture has discoloured due to dye transfer from 
non-colour fast items of clothing and/or soft furnishings. Mrs S says she was worried about 
dye from clothing transferring to the furniture so she discussed this with the salesperson 
before signing the loan agreement. I consider she would not have signed the agreement 
unless she had received strong reassurance that there would not be a problem, provided 
she used the recommended product. So, although the defect is not due to the quality of the 
furniture itself, I conclude that there was a misrepresentation at the point of sale and that 
Mrs S has a valid claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. It follows she should 
be put back in the position she would have been in had she not signed the agreement. 
I consider the furniture should be removed and the agreement terminated. Mrs S has had 
use of the furniture so I don’t think it fair that any payments she has already made should be 
refunded. But she should be refunded for the cost of the report. 
Ref: DRN7259874
2
Creation is not liable for any trouble and upset caused because the furniture was 
misrepresented by the salesperson. But I think Mrs S should be compensated for the delay 
in concluding her complaint caused by Creation arranging two inspections of the furniture, 
the first of which took around two hours. Creation did not supply a report following this first 
inspection. I consider £200 compensation to be reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
should:
1.
Remove the furniture, at no cost to Mrs S.
2.
Terminate the agreement, with no further payments being due.
3.
Pay Mrs S £50 to compensate her for the cost of the independent report.
4.
Pay Mrs S £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2015.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7259874
