K821x#14
complaint
Miss M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly said she had cancelled a 
direct debit for payments to her loan account and referred it to debt collectors without 
contacting her. She also complains about its lack of response to her complaint.
background
In November 2014 Miss M’s direct debit was cancelled. Creation wrote to her about that, but 
when it got no response it referred matters to debt collectors. They managed to contact her 
in February 2015. She contacted Creation and said she had not cancelled the direct debit. 
She provided information from her bank which indicated that the cancellation instruction had 
come from Creation itself. Although Miss M complained to Creation in early February, and 
chased up a full response she did not receive one until June, after we were involved. 
Creation said the instruction to cancel the direct debit had come from Miss M’s bank, through 
ADDACS (automated direct debit amendment and cancellation service - which allows banks 
to notify service users if changes are made to a customer’s direct debit instruction). Creation 
said it had written to her about that at the address it held: but she had not given it her latest 
address.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint was upheld. He said that although 
Creation acted as instructed by ADDACS, Miss M’s bank had disputed that, and there was 
no evidence of such an instruction being given. He did not think Miss M had cancelled the 
direct debit and thought the adverse information on her credit file was not a true reflection of 
the situation. He said that Creation’s communication and complaint handling had been 
unsatisfactory. He recommended that Creation allowed Miss M to make the two missing 
payments without interest or charges, reverse any adverse entries added to the credit file up 
to the first payment being missed, and paid Miss M £150 for poor complaint handling and 
lack of communication.
Creation repeated that it had followed an instruction it had received via ADDACS. It provided 
screen shots which it said showed that it received notification on 18 November 2014 via 
ADDACS that Miss M had changed her bank details: so the original direct debit instruction 
was no longer live. (However the relevant screen shot gives a date of 18 November 2013, 
not 2014, for the change of bank details.) It believed that the missed payments in December 
2014 and January 2015 reflected a true payment history. It proposed only removing records 
of missed payments from February, after Miss M had contacted it. It was prepared to offer 
£50 for the poor service.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately it remains a mystery why and how the direct debit was cancelled. I think the 
recent information Creation sent, about a change of bank details, is irrelevant as it actually 
refers to 2013 not 2014. But Creation and Miss M’s bank have each provided a report from 
their computer systems which appear to show that the direct debit cancellation in 2014 
originated with the other organisation. But I am satisfied that, however the cancellation 
happened, it was not as a result of an instruction by Miss M. Therefore I do not think it would 
be right for her credit report to suggest that she had failed to make necessary payments, as 
Ref: DRN7816200
2
that would not be a fair reflection of her management of the account. So her credit report 
should be amended to remove any adverse information on the account from November 2014 
onwards. I understand she has now settled it in full.
I do not criticise Creation for the delay in Miss M discovering the situation. I have not seen 
evidence to show that Miss M had notified Creation of her change of address before 
February 2015.
However I do not think that, when I am satisfied that Miss M did not cancel the payments, 
that it would be fair for her to have to pay any additional fees and charges caused by the 
cancellation. I understand that Miss M did not clear the account for some time after she 
discovered the situation, but for most of that time she was waiting for a response to her 
complaint. So I think any fees and charges Miss M had paid should now be refunded to her.
I agree with the adjudicator that the handling of the complaint was poor. The situation was 
not especially complex but Creation failed to provide any sort of substantive response for 
about four months. That has delayed resolution of the matter, over a period when Miss M’s 
credit record has been adversely affected. I think compensation of £150 would be 
appropriate.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint as regards the handling of matters after Miss M 
complained. In full and final settlement I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
-
remove any adverse information about this account from November 2014 onwards;
-
refund to Miss M any fees and charges she incurred following the direct debit 
cancellation;
-
pay her £150 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2015.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7816200
