K821x#12
complaint
Mr V complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy. 
background
In 2006 Mr V bought some furniture in a store and took out a £1,299 loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £488.97, which was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr V wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £436.23 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining term of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr V’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mr V would’ve bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr V was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account in deciding 
Mr V’s case. 
I’ve decided to uphold Mr V’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr V how much the policy cost. I say this because: 
•
The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr V bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr V to 
work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr V would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying a sofa – not on buying insurance.
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr V to understand what the policy was costing 
him.  
•
The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr V aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 29.8%. This meant Mr V would pay a substantial extra amount of 
Ref: DRN7789909
2
interest on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.   
•
The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr V was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr V would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. 
•
I don’t think Mr V would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr V’s complaint. 
fair compensation 
Mr V borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been. So 
Mr V needs to be put back in the position he would’ve been in if he hadn’t taken out PPI. I 
understand that Mr V refinanced his loan. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr V the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid without PPI.  

Work out and pay Mr V the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr V paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on†.

If Mr V made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr V’s complaint is upheld. And Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must calculate and pay Mr V fair compensation as I’ve set out above. I make no further 
award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7789909
