K821x#12
complaint
Mr U complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold his loan payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background 
Mr U took out the PPI policy with a loan in October 2008 when he bought some electrical 
goods. Creation said that the sale took place in the store, and that it didn’t advise Mr U to 
take out the PPI. Mr U borrowed £1.346.80 for the goods, and the PPI cost an additional 
£561.79. This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. So if Mr U repaid the loan within that 
time he wouldn’t pay interest. Otherwise the loan was set to be repaid over 48 months. The 
monthly payments included the PPI premium and a further £690.54 in interest on the 
premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr U’s complaint. He didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And he didn’t think Mr U would have bought the policy if it 
had.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr U was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr U’s complaint. This is because I agree with the adjudicator that 
Creation didn’t properly tell Mr U how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr U bought at the same time. And it didn’t show the PPI interest as 
a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr U to work it out for himself. He was 
entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the policy to be in the 
loan agreement.

There was a ‘statement of price’ which did set out the interest. But it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr U would expect it to be. And I 
can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying electrical goods – not insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr U better understand what the policy was 
costing him.  
Ref: DRN7674756
2

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr U aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t repay the 
loan within the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at 
32.4%. This meant Mr U would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost for the first year - but the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr U was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr U would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 
Overall I don’t think Mr U would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him. So I uphold Mr U’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr U borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was higher than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have done each month. So he needs to get back the extra he 
has paid. 
So Creation should:
work out and pay Mr U the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would have paid each month without PPI;
add simple interest to the extra amount Mr U paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†);
if Mr U made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what Mr U 
received from what’s due to him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr U a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr U’s complaint. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation I’ve described above.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7674756
