K822x
complaint
Mr C and his representative are unhappy with the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has 
administered his account particularly that it didn’t set up a direct debit and has entered a 
default and adverse information on his credit account. 
background 
Our adjudicator felt that this complaint should be upheld. He said:

Mr C’s bank says the direct debit was probably never set up properly and it’s no 
record of him cancelling it. It’s more likely than not that Creation made an error 
setting up the direct debit. 

Mr C wasn’t aware of the direct debit issue or the default and he’d not received 
letters from Creation. When he became aware of it he contacted Creation 
immediately. It hasn’t given him copies of the agreement in a timely way. He’s been 
harshly treated by the late payments and default being recorded on his credit file.

So, on the basis that Mr C brings the account up to date, Creation should get the 
account back from the debt collector and remove the default charge and adverse 
information recorded on his credit file. Creation should also pay Mr C some 
compensation for its customer service.
Creation has offered £50 compensation for not responding in good time. It’s also agreed to 
amend the credit file once the account is out of arrears. If Mr C agrees to this it will recall the 
account and the direct debit will have to be reset.
Mr C says his bank has confirmed that Creation failed to set up the direct debit. He couldn’t 
have set it up as he wasn’t given a copy of the agreement until some time later. He still 
hasn’t been given a legible copy. The fault is entirely with Creation. Its offer of £50 
compensation isn’t enough. He’s prepared to pay £400 for the payments to date. He will then 
continue paying in accordance with the agreement and the remaining balance will be 
Creation’s compensation to him.
Creation doesn’t agree to Mr C’s proposal. It says it’s not proportionate. It believes its offer to 
amend the credit file is a fair resolution of the complaint.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On balance I agree with the adjudicator’s conclusions for the same reasons and I think his 
proposed resolution of this complaint is fair. I also think Creation’s offer to pay Mr C £50 
compensation for failing to respond in a timely way is reasonable.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:

To pay Mr C £50 compensation; and 
Ref: DRN7744857
2

On the basis that Mr C brings his account up to date - to get his account back from 
the debt collector, remove the default charge from the account and remove the 
adverse information recorded on Mr C’s credit file. The parties will then need to reset 
the direct debit so that Mr C can make the remaining agreed payments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2016.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7744857
