K822x
complaint
Mrs H complains errors by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd led to her direct debit payments 
being cancelled and arrears on her account. She wants compensation and any adverse 
markers on her credit file removing. The agreement is in Mrs H’s maiden name but for 
convenience I’ll refer to her throughout as Mrs H.
background 
Mrs H tells us she has an account with Creation and makes monthly repayments by Direct 
Debit. But she recently noticed it wasn’t collecting the direct debits. She says she now finds 
herself in arrears and late payment markers on her credit file.
Creation told us the issue arose as the customer’s bank, who I’ll call “N” cancelled the 
mandate. But it offered £50 compensation as it accepted it hadn’t always sent arrears letters 
when this occurred. And it said it would remove late payment markers from Mrs H’s credit 
file. In respect of the arrears which had accumulated it said it would be willing to make a 
payment arrangement with Mrs H - and once that was paid, it would amend the credit file to 
show clear payments.
The investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He felt the late payment 
markers should be removed from Mrs H’s credit file and Creation should pay her £150 in 
compensation.
Creation didn’t agree and said it would offer £50 compensation and to clear the late markers 
from the credit card. It wanted an ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H is upset about what’s happened. The credit arrangement she 
had with Creation appeared to be operating normally from December 2016 until late 2017. 
And she’d set up a direct debit arrangement from which Creation could take payments from 
her bank account with N. 
But the debits suddenly stopped being taken. And when Mrs H’s husband rang Creation to 
tell them about this it seems to have been the catalyst for a dispute to arise between 
Creation and N as to who was to blame. Unfortunately, Mrs H - the person who all agree 
was not at fault - was caught in the middle. The result was the account fell into arrears and 
late payment markers were placed on Mrs H’s credit record.
Whilst I don’t think I need go into great detail I think it’s necessary to briefly explain how 
direct debits operate. A direct debit is an authority given by a customer of a business - which 
permits that business to take payments from the customer’s bank account. So if a payment 
wasn’t made I’d expect the business to notify the customer - not the bank. As it would be the 
business which hadn’t been paid what it was due.
Ref: DRN7962025
2
I’ve seen evidence that Creation cancelled the direct debit several times and then sought to 
reinstate it - at first without success. But I don’t see it as being helpful to start analysing the 
complexities of what went wrong - particularly as I understand the problem appears to have 
been overcome. And Creation have confirmed the latest direct debits have gone through
as expected. What I can say is a complaint against N - about its part over the same issue - 
was not upheld.
The consequence of this unfortunate sequence of events is that Mrs H is now in arrears and 
late payment markers have appeared on her credit file. And quite naturally Mrs H views this 
with serious concern as it can seriously impact upon her access to future credit - including 
mortgages.
I’m aware there’s a considerable difference between what the parties feel is suitable redress 
in this case. Creation has offered £50 in respect of the failure to send arrears letters. Whilst 
Mr H, on behalf of his wife, thinks £500 would be fair. 
I’m minded to think the investigator’s recommendation of £150 is fair and reasonable. The 
object of compensation is to offer some recompense to a customer - not to punish a 
business. And whilst I accept Creation’s offer has been made in good faith I think it doesn’t 
go quite far enough. It took several months to sort the issue out and the effects are still being 
experienced by Mrs H in terms of her credit file. So I think the distress and inconvenience 
she’s gone through is better reflected in the figure suggested by the investigator.
In summary, I’m going to uphold the complaint and require Creation to pay £150 to Mrs H. 
But as Mrs H is concerned about the effect on her credit file it seems to me the best way to 
minimise this is for Creation to deduct any arrears owing before paying the balance to Mrs H.
This way her credit file can be marked as clear in the shortest possible time.
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m upholding this complaint. I’m ordering 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
1.
Arrange to remove late payment markers arising from this complaint from Mrs H’s 
credit file - if not already done.
2.
Pay Mrs H £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
3.
Arrange to remove all reference from Mrs H’s credit file to any payment arrangement 
in respect of this account arising from the arrears to which this complaint relates. This 
need only be done after all such arrears are paid.
Creation may deduct any arrears and credit Mrs H’s account before paying the balance of 
the above sum (if any) to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2018
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7962025
3
Ref: DRN7962025
