K821x#14
complaint
Mr R complains that a TV he bought with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(Creation) is not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr R ordered a TV and it was delivered on 30 September 2014. Mr R had paid for it to be 
installed but this could not be completed and Mr R said he would install the TV himself. 
When Mr R set up the TV he noticed that there was a fault on the screen and he reported 
this to the retailer. The retailer offered a repair or a reconditioned TV because Mr R was 
outside its 30 day replacement or return period. Mr R was unhappy with this and complained 
to Creation. Creation said that there was nothing it could do because Mr R was outside the 
30 day period. Mr R has bought a new TV and wants a refund for the broken TV.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the TV 
was faulty when it was supplied to Mr R and it was reasonable for him to request a 
replacement. Because of the time that Creation took to deal with the complaint Mr R has 
bought a new TV and so the adjudicator thought it was fair that Mr R had a full refund. 
Creation did not agree and replied to say in summary that a repair was a reasonable option 
and Mr R hadn’t co-operated with requests for evidence about the damage.
  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly similar reasons.
I think that the TV was faulty when it was supplied to Mr R. He complained about the fault as 
soon as the TV was installed. Mr R has been clear from the beginning that he did not want a 
refurbished replacement and I think that this is reasonable in the circumstances. He paid for 
a new TV and he had not used it so I think that it was reasonable for him to want a new TV 
to replace the faulty one. Mr R agreed that an engineer could visit to inspect the damage and 
try to repair it. But he did not want to have the TV collected and returned after a repair 
because he would need to take time off work. 
I think that because Mr R had not used the TV and it was faulty from the beginning it was 
reasonable for him to expect a new replacement. Mr R had paid for a new TV and he could 
reasonably expect it to be free from faults. It is unfortunate that the fault wasn’t discovered 
sooner and within the 30 day period but Mr R reported the fault as soon as he installed the 
TV and this was only a short time outside the 30 days.
After Mr R couldn’t resolve the problem with the retailer he asked Creation to look into his 
complaint. Because of the length of time that this process has taken Mr R has bought a new 
TV. I think that had Creation looked at Mr R’s complaint sooner, a repair could have been 
arranged at minimal inconvenience to Mr R and the TV could have been collected at a time 
when Mr R wasn’t working. Because of the time that has passed I don’t think a repair is 
reasonable now. Mr R has bought a new TV which I think is understandable and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN7333108
2
I agree with the adjudicator that Creation should pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the 
poor service in dealing with his complaint. It should also arrange for the TV to be returned 
and the finance agreement cancelled at no cost to Mr R. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1.
Pay Mr R £100 for the poor service.
2.
Arrange to collect the TV at no cost to Mr R and cancel the finance agreement.
3.
Refund all payments made by Mr R under the agreement.
4.
Pay interest on all payments made at 8% simple per year from the date the payment 
was made until Mr R gets it back. If Creation considers that tax should be deducted 
from the interest element of my award it should provide Mr R with a tax deduction 
certificate so he can reclaim the tax if he is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2015.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7333108
