K821x#14
complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy in 2010. 
Mr M says he was unaware of the PPI. He’s said he didn’t need the cover because his 
employer would’ve provided him with sick pay for more than a year. 
background
In 2010 Mr M was 19 years old and employed with HM Forces. He bought some furniture in a 
store which cost £2,364. Mr M put down a deposit and arranged a loan of £1,000 to pay for 
the remaining balance. 
The £1,000 loan was taken out over a term of 10 months with a monthly payment of £100. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld as there were significant terms in the 
policy which would’ve made it difficult for Mr M to claim due to the nature of his employment. 
Creation disagreed. It said the policy was sold to Mr M without giving him any advice to take 
out the cover. Creation said it was up to Mr M to check the terms of the cover to help him 
decide if he wanted to take out the PPI. 
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are the same as those set out on 
our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-
If Creation gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr M’s needs?
-
Did Creation give Mr M the information he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr M is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different – such as not 
taking out the policy – if there hadn’t been any problems with the sale?
I agree with the adjudicator that Mr M’s complaint should be upheld.
Mr M bought his furniture and arranged the financing for it in a store. The credit agreement Mr 
M signed included a section for PPI. Mr M did not agree to take out PPI at that time. 
Creation has said its system noted that Mr M hadn’t taken out PPI at the time he arranged his 
credit. And that it could see Mr M was eligible for the cover. Creation has said because of this 
it sent Mr M some documents to propose its Payment Plus Credit Cover. These documents 
included, an Initial Disclosure Document, Policy Summary, Statement of Demands and Needs 
and a pre-populated Payment Plus acceptance form. 
Ref: DRN7519059
2
Mr M has said he doesn’t recall the policy being sold to him. Creation has said it was sold 
through the post and that it didn’t give Mr M any advice to take out the cover. In the 
circumstances of this case, I have some concerns about how Mr M found himself to have the 
PPI after initially declining it. And I think it’s possible that Mr M may have understood the 
follow up paperwork sent by Creation ‘proposing’ PPI, was advising him to have the policy. 
However, I’ve not considered this in any detail. This is because even if I accept that Creation 
did not recommend the policy to Mr M, I don’t think it did everything it should’ve done. As no 
advice was being given to Mr M, Creation didn’t have to make a suitable recommendation for 
his circumstances. Instead it had to provide Mr M with enough clear information so that he 
could properly understand the cover before deciding to take it out. Looking at the available 
evidence, I don’t think Creation did this. 
Documentation was sent to Mr M, but I don’t think it properly highlighted the significant terms. 
The terms that were particularly relevant to Mr M were set out in the policy document – which 
was not one of the documents sent to Mr M. And I can see that it would’ve been difficult for Mr 
M to find these terms in the policy document as they were set out on page 15 of a 25 page 
document. I don’t think this is where Mr M would’ve reasonably expected to find important 
information. 
Mr M was taking out a small loan over a term that was less than a year. The cover he had 
through his employer was over 12 months and so would’ve lasted longer than the term of the 
loan. I think had the relevant exclusion been made clear to Mr M and he’d understood there 
was a real possibility that he wouldn’t be able to claim due to the nature of his employment, I 
don’t think he would’ve thought the policy provided value for money given his circumstances. 
So I don’t think he would’ve gone ahead with it. 
fair compensation 
Mr M should be put back in the position he would’ve been in now if had taken out the 
agreement without the PPI policy. I understand that both the loan and PPI policy have now 
ended. 
Creation should therefore pay Mr M the premiums he has paid towards the policy. And it 
should pay Mr M simple interest for each monthly premium from when he paid it until he gets it 
back (the rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on†).
Creation should show Mr M how it worked this out. And if Mr M made a successful claim under 
the policy Creation can take off what Mr M got for the claim from the amount they owe him. 
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr M to take off tax from this interest. Creation must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr M’s complaint is upheld and I require Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay Mr M fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2014.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7519059
