K821x#14
complaint
Mr B says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy to him. 
background
In 2008 Mr B took out a loan with Creation over the phone, to refinance some existing credit 
cards and a loan. At the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. It would make his loan 
payments for up to 12 months if he couldn’t get work, or was too sick to work. And it would 
pay off the loan if he died. 
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the policy, which would be repaid over the loan term with 
interest. However, he took out another loan with Creation a few months later and paid off the 
first loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr B’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had done enough during 
the phone call, or in the paperwork it sent him, to make Mr B properly aware of how much 
the policy cost. And she didn’t think Mr B would have taken the policy out if he’d known this. 
Creation disagreed. It said the cost of the policy was clearly set out in the paperwork and it 
was up to Mr B to read what it sent to him.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr B’s complaint.
Creation sold the policy to Mr B over the phone. It hasn’t got a call recording. But it’s 
provided a call script it says would have been followed. Mr B has strongly disagreed that the 
script was followed. He’s provided a detailed account of several conversations he says he 
had with the same, named, Creation staff member. 
Mr B says he took PPI with the first loan because the staff member told him to ‘off the 
record’. He says she told him that, being self-employed, he would have a better chance of 
having the loan approved if he took PPI with it. But he also says the same staff member told 
him not to take PPI when she offered him a ‘bump up’ loan a few months later; because he 
would go over Creation’s maximum lending limit and the loan wouldn’t be approved. 
Mr B has been very detailed and also very consistent in what he’s said. Based on the 
content of the script and on Mr B’s recollections, I’m concerned he might not have properly 
understood that he had a real choice about whether to buy the policy. But even if I leave that 
to one side, I also share the adjudicator’s concerns about how the policy was explained to 
Mr B; particularly the cost of it.
The policy cost over £4,000, with a further £2,500 in interest. The script doesn’t suggest that 
Mr B would have been given either the single premium cost or the interest figure over the 
Ref: DRN7419633
2
phone. And the interest also wasn’t shown separately in the loan agreement he received 
afterwards. 
Creation says the interest was given separately in the ‘statement of price’, which was 
included in the policy summary it says it would have sent to Mr B. But I can’t be sure Mr B 
got that document. He is certain he didn’t. And he’s provided the covering letter he got with 
his agreement in the post, which doesn’t refer to the summary or direct him to read any 
enclosed information about the policy.
So it’s possible Mr B didn’t see the policy summary. Even if he did see it, the interest was on 
page three. That wasn’t a prominent location, or where Mr B would reasonably expect to find 
it. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the policy to be in 
the loan agreement. 
The policy provided cover for 60 months, when the loan was for 84 months. And the way the 
cancellation terms worked meant Mr B wouldn’t get the level of refund he might have 
expected to get from the cost of the policy if he cancelled it early. This wasn’t properly 
explained in the call script. Whilst it was in the policy summary, it wasn’t prominent. And I 
return to the fact that Mr B says he never received the summary. His description of the 
conversations he had also suggests he wasn’t told about this when he was arranging the 
second ‘bump up’ loan. 
It was Creation’s responsibility to give Mr B enough information about the main features and 
benefits of the policy so that he could decide whether it was right for him. Creation should 
have ensured his attention was drawn to the important information about the policy which 
would be likely to affect his decision making. I’m not satisfied that Creation met its 
responsibility to give Mr B enough information to make an informed choice. 
As Mr B was using the first loan to refinance existing debt I think the cost of the policy would 
have been important to him. And the interest charged on the policy greatly increased the 
cost of it. The inflexible cancellation terms also meant it would cost him more if he wanted to 
pay the loan off early or refinance it. 
In his circumstances, I don’t think Mr B would have bought the policy if not for Creation’s 
failings. So it follows that I uphold his complaint.
what Creation should do to put things right
Mr B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his first loan was bigger than it should’ve been. 
And his second loan was also bigger than it should’ve been because it cost him more to 
repay the first loan. He also paid more than he should’ve each month on both loans. 
So Mr B needs to get back the extra he’s paid and start paying what he should’ve been 
paying all along.
So, Creation should:

change the amount Mr B has left to pay on the second loan so his payments are the 
same now as they would be if he hadn’t taken out PPI on his first loan

work out and pay the difference between what Mr B paid each month on his first and 
second loans and what he would’ve paid without PPI
Ref: DRN7419633
3

add simple interest to the extra amounts Mr B paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†)

show Mr B how it worked this out and the amount he still owes

show Mr B how much his future payments will be.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr B the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2015.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7419633
