K822x
complaint
The estate of the late Mr W complains about the response of Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a fixed term loan Mr W took 
out to finance solar panels.
The loan provided by Creation was to finance the purchase of solar panels. The estate 
alleges the benefits of the solar panels were mispresented by the third party that also acted 
as the credit intermediary for the Creation loan. And that these misrepresentations caused 
Mr W to enter a finance agreement he otherwise would not have. 
background 
Sadly, after having brought his complaint to this service, Mr W has passed away. His estate 
has maintained the complaint and is represented by a third party. Many of the submissions 
made have been put forward by either the estate or the representatives. But, for the sake of 
simplicity, I will largely just refer to them as Mr W’s comments.
In 2014, Mr W entered an agreement with a third party, “IP”, for the installation of solar 
panels on his property. As part of the arrangements, Mr W entered a fixed term loan with 
Creation to pay for these panels and their installation. IP acted as the credit intermediary for 
the loan. The total amount, including interest and charges, repayable over the 10-year term 
of the loan was around £16,650.
Mr W said he was told the solar panels would produce energy, which would not only reduce 
the amount he needed to buy from his energy supplier, but that the energy supplier would 
also pay for the energy he produced. Mr W said IP told him this would mean the solar panels 
would be “self-funding”.
However, Mr W said that the solar panels did not result in the level of savings required to 
offset the monthly cost of the loan. And he considered IP to have misrepresented the 
arrangements. Mr W said he would not have taken the loan had he been given correct 
information.
Mr W contacted Creation to raise his concerns and claimed under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (“the Act”). He said that, as a result of section 75 of the Act, Creation was responsible 
for the actions of IP when it sold the loan. And he wanted Creation to cancel the loan, 
refunding all payments made. Creation did not uphold the claim and provided Mr W with a 
complaint final response letter. Mr W referred the complaint to this service.
Since then, Creation has accepted that IP may have made misrepresentations and said it 
was willing to uphold the claim. Creation offered to put Mr W in the position he would be in if 
the savings from the solar panels over the term of the loan equalled the repayments Mr W 
had to make under the loan.
Our investigator thought a fair outcome would be putting Mr W in a position where the panels 
were self-funding over the original term of the loan, which is what Creation’s offer did. 
Ref: DRN7372502
2
Mr W was still unwilling to accept this as a resolution to his complaint. Mr W said he had 
been led to believe the payments he would be given by the energy supplier for producing 
energy alone would cover the cost of the panels. And that he would also benefit from the 
savings achieved by not buying as much energy, something the offer did not take into 
account. Mr W also said that there was a potential ongoing cost of maintaining the solar 
panels, which had not been covered by Creation’s offer. 
On learning of Mr W’s passing, Creation revised its offer, and agreed to write off the 
outstanding balance of the loan as of March 2019. Our investigator felt this was fair, and 
went further than the original offer. However, Mr W’s estate was still unwilling to accept this 
offer. They advised that the finance agreement should be fully rescinded and all payments 
should be refunded with 8% interest. However, no further evidence to support this position 
was provided.
As such, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, the complaint that this service is able to consider is whether Creation has 
appropriately dealt with Mr W’s claim under the Act. Whilst the mechanisms of the Act mean 
that Creation can be held liable for certain actions of IP, it should be borne in mind that it 
was not Creation that made any of the representations to Mr W at the time of the sale.
Where the facts of a case are in dispute, I must determine on the balance of probabilities 
what happened. In this case, the majority of the facts are no longer in dispute. Creation has 
accepted that IP may have made misrepresentations when Mr W entered the arrangements, 
including the loan. 
As such, my decision is focussed on determining what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for this is. In cases like this one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact 
science. There are a range of options that might be considered fair and reasonable.
The role of this service is to resolve disputes fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. 
Generally speaking, where a financial business is found to have not acted appropriately, we 
will try to put the complainant in the position they would have been in had the business acted 
appropriately.
So, in this case, I consider my role is to determine whether the offer Creation has made is an 
appropriate response to Mr W’s claim under the Act, taking into account the particular 
circumstances of this case.
It seems likely that, had IP not have made the misrepresentations is apparently did, Mr W 
would not have entered into the arrangements. He would not have had the solar panels fitted 
and would not have entered into the loan with Creation. 
We do often try to put complainants back in the position they would have been in, had the 
inappropriate event not occurred. So, there is some argument for completely unwinding the 
loan agreement, and for Mr W’s estate to be refunded the payments made.
Ref: DRN7372502
3
However, this would also necessitate the removal of the solar panels from the property. And 
the benefits achieved by having the solar panels – both the payments made by Mr W’s 
energy supplier and the reduction in his energy bills – would have to be deducted from any 
refund made. 
This would not only significantly reduce any refund payable to Mr W’s estate, but the 
removal of the panels would also cause a high degree of inconvenience to the estate. 
Given the basis of this complaint does not relate to the solar panels themselves, but rather to 
the finances surrounding them, I consider that a reasonable resolution should just address 
the financial side. And that removal of the panels is not practical in the circumstances. 
Whilst I note there may be a future cost of maintaining them, I need to bear in mind that the 
panels do provide financial benefits to the estate. 
Mr W estimated that the payment received from his energy supplier, for the energy the 
panels generated, is around £700 a year. There may be some reduction to the amount of 
energy produced each year (though energy costs themselves may also change), but the 
energy supplier is likely to pay a sum close to this for the approximate 20 year lifespan of the 
panels. That would give a total of £14,000. This would not take into account the financial 
benefit of any reduction in the energy that would need to be bought from the supplier.
By writing off the balance of the loan as of March 2019, the solar panels have effectively cost 
around £8,000. Mr W has estimated the future cost of maintaining the panels at around 
£800. 
These numbers are only estimates. But it seems clear that Creation’s offer means having the 
solar panels will be financial advantageous to Mr W’s estate. So, I don’t think it would be fair 
to expect Creation to go further and fully unwind the finance agreement.
I consider that a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint is for Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to write off any outstanding debt on this loan, as of 20 March 2019.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. If it has not already done so, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should write off any outstanding debt on the late Mr W’s 
loan, as of 20 March 2019.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of the 
late Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7372502
