K821x#15
complaint
Mr M says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2007 Mr M bought some electrical goods in a shop. He took out a loan to pay for them. At 
the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy – the cost of which was added to the loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature, and Mr M wouldn’t pay interest – or pay 
for the PPI – if he paid off the loan before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest on the whole 
loan (including the interest charged on the PPI) over the remaining 48 months of the term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr M’s complaint, because he didn’t think Creation had properly told 
Mr M how much the policy would cost. 
Creation disagreed. It said Mr M signed the loan papers and took them away with him – and 
he could’ve cancelled the policy if he didn’t want it.    
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr M’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint – because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr M how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr M to work it out for 
himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did give a separate figure for the interest – but this was on the 
second page of the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr M would expect it 
to be. I also can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention; particularly when he was in a 
shop and his attention was on buying goods, not on buying insurance. And, in this 
particular case, the statement of price also seems to show a lower amount of interest 
than the loan agreement suggests was actually charged. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr M better understand what the policy was costing him.  

The information in the credit agreement also wasn’t enough to make Mr M aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole loan, including the PPI cost, attracted 
interest at 32.4%. This meant he’d pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 

The PPI interest shown in the statement of price was almost as much as the single 
premium for the policy (and the loan agreement suggests the interest charged was even 
Ref: DRN7659046
2
higher). And the total policy cost was also high compared to the amount Mr M was 
borrowing to buy the goods. This was unusual – and I think Mr M would have seen this as 
important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. Especially as he was 
borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items and his monthly payments 
(including the PPI) were only around £50.

Creation says Mr M could have cancelled the policy after signing – but he was entitled to 
be told the important information he needed to know before he signed. I don’t think the 
fact Mr M didn’t cancel the policy afterwards means he was happy with it, or understood 
what it was really costing him.
Given his circumstances, I don’t think Mr M would have bought the policy if Creation had 
done everything it should have done during the sale. So I uphold this complaint. 
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand the loan and PPI have now ended. But Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, 
so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he paid more than he should have each 
month. Mr M now needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr M the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr M the 
compensation I’ve described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2016.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659046
