K820x#13
complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited will not pay for replacement 
wardrobe doors. His complaint is made against Creation Consumer Finance under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
background
Some fitted wardrobes were supplied to Mr G which he financed using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance. He did not like the look of the wardrobe doors 
so he complained to the supplier, and then to Creation Consumer Finance under section 75. 
He was not satisfied with Creation Consumer Finance’s response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
that the supplier had not made an error and that, as this was a case of Mr G not liking the 
doors, she could not ask Creation Consumer Finance to pay for replacement doors.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he is very unhappy with the look of the doors that have been fitted and it will cost a lot 
for him to change them.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there has been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mr G’s complaint about Creation 
Consumer Finance under section 75, I must be satisfied that there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the wardrobe doors.
Mr G ordered fitted wardrobes for his spare bedroom from the supplier. He wanted glass 
sliding doors but the supplier said that it did not stock them in the size needed for the room 
so it suggested an alternative, to which Mr G agreed. When the wardrobes had been fitted, 
Mr G disliked the look of the doors and he complained to the supplier. The supplier 
inspected the doors and concluded that the doors had been fitted correctly.
It has now found a supplier for the type of doors that Mr G would like but they would need to 
be specially ordered and, because of their weight, an extra person would be needed to fit 
them. It says that the replacement cost would therefore be £1,500 which Mr G would have to 
pay. Mr G does not consider that he should have to pay £1,500 to have the doors replaced.
I consider that the wardrobe doors that have been supplied to Mr G are the doors that he 
ordered. Although he does not like the doors, I am not persuaded that there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I therefore do not consider that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to pay for the 
replacement doors or to pay any other compensation to Mr G under section 75.
The supplier has found doors that Mr G would like but says that he would have to pay for 
those doors, including the fitting. I do not consider that to be unreasonable in these 
Ref: DRN7805244
2
circumstances. Nor do I consider that Creation Consumer Finance has dealt with Mr G’s 
complaint incorrectly.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr G’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2015.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7805244
