K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a Subject Access 
Request (SAR) he made in October 2018. He also complains that it wrongly shared his 
personal data with a third party.
(I’m aware that Mr P disagrees with Creation on a wide range of issues, but this complaint is 
solely about his October 2018 SAR and the way Creation handled his personal data.)
background
Mr P told us:

As at October 2018, he had an existing credit agreement with Creation. A dispute 
had arisen in connection with that existing credit agreement. The dispute involved 
goods purchased from a third party, which I will call “C”.

He made a SAR, but Creation did not provide all the documents that he believes it 
should have done – either within the required timescales or at all. Amongst other 
things, Creation did not supply him with copies of correspondence between itself and 
C (and in particular, it did not supply him with C’s response to Creation’s email of 
12 April 2018). Creation also failed to supply him with copies of correspondence 
between himself and C.

Creation did provide him with a CD, which it said contained information relevant to 
his SAR – but the CD came without any instructions, and he was not able to use it to 
access data.

In addition, Creation shared his personal data with C without his authorisation.
Creation told us:

It processed Mr P’s SAR correctly. It sent him all the information he was entitled to 
see, and it did so within the required timescales.

It is sorry that it sent Mr P a CD without any instructions, but it did send him 
instructions very shortly afterwards.

It considers that the terms and conditions of its agreement with Mr P allow it to 
“contact and exchange information with partner companies [such as C] providing we 
have an appropriate reason to do so”. It is satisfied that it did have an appropriate 
reason to contact C in this case.
One of our investigators looked at Mr P’s complaint, but she did not uphold it. Briefly, she 
said:

She didn’t think Creation held copies of the correspondence between Mr P and C – 
so she didn’t think it was possible for Creation to send that correspondence to Mr P 
in response to his SAR.

She also didn’t think Creation received a response to its 12 April 2018 email to C – 
so again, she didn’t think it was possible for Creation to send that response to Mr P.
Ref: DRN7656915
2

She accepted that Creation sent Mr P a CD with no instructions on it. But she also 
noted that Creation had apologised for that failure, and sent instructions. She said 
she was sorry to hear that the CD wasn’t playable on Mr P’s device, but she didn’t 
think she could fairly ask Creation to do anything more. 
Mr P did not accept our investigator’s conclusions, and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He also said that before any ombudsman review was 
undertaken, he would like “Creation to provide the FOS all telephone calls and [C’s] emails 
from archive, since SAR is incomplete…Creation stated in letters to me previously that 
certain other calls which have not been provided were listened to’”.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. I said:
“Mr P has provided comprehensive submissions in support of his complaint. I confirm 
that I have read and considered everything he provided, but I will not respond using 
the same level of detail. I do not intend any discourtesy by that; it simply reflects the 
informal nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
There is very little that I can add to what our investigator has already said. It is 
impossible for me to be absolutely certain that Creation processed Mr P’s SAR 
correctly, but on balance I think it is much more likely than not that Creation did give 
Mr P all the information he was entitled to. 
Creation says it does not have all of the information that Mr P wants. Clearly Creation 
cannot disclose information it does not have. I have noted Mr P’s comments about 
phone calls being listened to, but I have no reason to suspect that Creation has failed 
to disclose information that it should have done.
It is unfortunate that Creation sent Mr P a CD without instructions, but I don’t think it 
would be appropriate for me to award compensation as a result. I consider that 
Creation provided instructions within a reasonable period, and it would not be fair for 
me to require anything more.
I am also satisfied that it was necessary for Creation to disclose Mr P’s personal data 
to C in order for Creation to comply with its own legal obligations (and consider a 
claim Mr P had made against Creation in relation to goods purchased from C).
I can see that Mr P and Creation have had various exchanges about Creation’s 
practical arrangements for dealing with SARs – for example, whether it supplies 
telephone recordings on CD or memory stick, and whether it could or should have 
used a particular delivery service for physical documents. As an ombudsman, it is not 
part of my role to tell Creation what its practical arrangements should be. I can 
consider whether Creation’s practical arrangements have caused Mr P financial loss 
or material distress or inconvenience – but here, I don’t think they have. Mr P was 
disappointed to receive some documents slightly later than he expected to, but I don’t 
think it would be fair for me to award compensation for that disappointment.  
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I consider that Creation has treated 
Mr P fairly. I do not intend to award compensation, nor do I intend to direct Creation 
to take any actions.”
Ref: DRN7656915
3
Mr P did not accept my provisional findings, and asked that they be reviewed. He said:
“Creation have not supplied every telephone call to myself, despite having to adhere 
to Data Security arrangements under GPDR and the former 1998 Data Protection 
Act. The “privacy policy” of Creation states they ensure a third party, in this case, [C] 
to use encryption to safeguard sensitive Creation customer data but this was not the 
case, as [C] were involved in a Data Theft notified to the ICO. If Creation may 
exchange data when I have a right of access to all telephone calls as Creation 
systems are Archived. 
Creation admit that telephone calls were made by me, and listened to by Creation, 
yet have not been provided via the FOS; in particular, at 9:54AM on 19 April 2017, 
this was confirmed in Creation letter dated 15 June 2017; the FOS have not 
addressed failures under Data Protection Act 1998 given these calls were made in 
the last six years, as I need these calls for possible future litigation against Creation 
itself, and [C] under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, as faulty goods were purchased 
yet then not repaired.”
Creation did not make any further comments in response to my provisional findings.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Mr P’s further comments, but I have not changed my mind. As I 
said, it is impossible for me to be certain that Creation processed Mr P’s SAR correctly – but 
on balance, I have no reason to suspect that Creation failed to disclose information that it 
should have done.
I would not expect any business to retain telephone recordings forever – so the fact that a 
business possessed a phone recording at one point does not necessarily show that the 
business was still in possession of that recording some months later. I have seen nothing 
that suggests to me that Creation failed to disclose information that it should have done, or 
that it treated Mr P unfairly in any way.
I understand that Mr P may wish to take legal action against Creation or C in future. But the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is an alternative to the courts – it is not the first stage of court 
proceedings. Our purpose is to resolve disputes between consumers and financial 
businesses, not to enable them to obtain evidence so they may pursue their dispute 
elsewhere. The courts have their own procedures for the disclosure of evidence. Mr P will be 
able to use those procedures if he does choose to take legal action against Creation (or 
indeed against C or anybody else). 
I remain satisfied that it was necessary for Creation to disclose Mr P’s personal data to C in 
order for Creation to comply with its own legal obligations. In the specific circumstances of 
this complaint, I do not think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation to make 
a payment to Mr P as a result of any data breaches associated with C.
Overall, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Ref: DRN7656915
4
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656915
