K822x
complaint
Mr B complains about an alarm system he got using finance from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. He says the business didn’t fulfil its contractual obligations regarding the 
maintenance and monitoring of the alarm system. 
background 
Mr B bought the alarm system in March 2009. He took out a loan with Creation to pay for it. 
Mr B says the business he bought the system from went into liquidation in 2011. So the 
system hasn’t been maintained since then. He brings his complaint under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
At first Creation said that monitoring and maintenance wasn’t included in the credit 
agreement Mr B entered into. But it offered him a 25% reduction in the amount he needed to 
pay under the agreement as a gesture of goodwill. But our adjudicator said that the invoice 
Mr B was given referred to “15 years free monitoring and maintenance”. And he could also 
see that in 2011 the business he bought the system from wrote to him to say that said that it 
would find another company to honour all contracts for monitoring services. So he thought 
that the monitoring service did form part of the contract Mr B entered into. As that part of the 
contract hasn’t been honoured, our adjudicator thought Creation should terminate the 
agreement and pay for any service and monitoring charges Mr B has incurred since March 
2011 if he can provide evidence to show what he paid. 
Creation agreed to our adjudicator’s recommendation. But Mr B didn’t. His representative 
said the alarm doesn’t work any longer and hadn’t done for at least 3 years. An engineer 
was called out in the past and told Mr B that the battery was virtually dead. And the alarm 
isn’t connected to the phone line any longer as Mr B changed provider.
Mr B’s representative says that because Mr B didn’t receive a monitoring and maintenance 
service there has been a breach of contract. So it thinks Mr B is entitled to rescind his 
contract and be put in the position he would’ve been in hadn’t entered into the contract. In 
other words, it thinks Mr B should be refunded the money he has paid under the agreement 
with interest. And it wants any outstanding balance written off. Our adjudicator didn’t think 
this would be fair. So I’ve been asked to review this complaint.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
There’s no longer any dispute that monitoring and maintenance of the alarm system was 
covered by the contract Mr B entered into in 2009. Nor is there any dispute that part of the 
contract wasn’t honoured after the business he bought the system from went into liquidation 
in 2011. But that doesn’t mean that the relevant term of agreement was breached from the 
start. Mr B had around three years’ use of the system before the business closed in 2011. 
So I don’t think it would be fair and reasonable for Mr B to get back all the money he paid 
under the agreement, with interest.
Ref: DRN7160174
2
As I think Mr B’s contract was breached in 2011 and it isn’t due to end until February 2019, 
I’ve considered whether it would be fair to require Creation to cancel the contract and 
reimburse Mr B for the payments he has made towards the contract since the date of the 
breach. But despite the breach, I think Mr B has benefited from the system since 2011. At 
the end of September 2016 (around three months after the complaint was first raised with 
us) Mr B’s representative told us that the alarm system hasn’t worked for at least 3 years 
because the battery needed replacing. There’s no indication that it didn’t work before this. 
And it doesn’t look as though Mr B has acted to get the battery replaced. I find this 
surprising. I think it’s likely that if the alarm wasn’t working and he was still paying for it, Mr B 
would’ve mentioned this sooner.
In the circumstances, I don’t think Mr B’s alarm is faulty. There may be an issue with the 
battery. But I think a new battery could be fitted to the system quite quickly and easily. Mr B’s 
representative also says that Mr B’s alarm isn’t linked to his phone line any longer as Mr B 
changed phone provider. But I don’t think Creation is responsible for linking up his new 
phone line to the system given that Mr B chose to change his phone provider.
To put matters right, I think Creation should cancel Mr B’s agreement and write off the rest of 
what he owes. It should record the agreement as settled on Mr B’s credit file. That’s because 
I think the contract has been breached, and given that another provider hasn’t been put in 
place to monitor and maintain Mr B’s alarm, it will remain in breach until it ends in 2019. The 
upshot of this is that Mr B won’t owe Creation any more money under the contract. And he 
can still choose to get the battery fixed and get the alarm linked up to his new phone line if 
he wants to use the alarm in the future. If Mr B does this he can arrange for another 
business to monitor and maintain it.
Creation has said that it is happy with the resolution. But Mr B’s representative isn’t. It says 
that Mr B paid money for a service he didn’t receive. So therefore, it’s only fair and 
reasonable that he should be reimbursed for the money he has paid already plus interest. 
But I disagree for the reasons set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should cancel Mr B’s loan, write off 
the remaining money owed under it, and record it as settled on Mr B’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2016.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7160174
