K821x#12
complaint
Mr U complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
him in February 2005 by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
The policy was sold with a fixed-sum loan. It provided life, accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. Mr U says the policy was mis-sold.
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mr U aware of the total cost of the policy, the interest charged on it, or the 
effect this would have on his monthly loan repayments. And he didn’t think Mr U would have 
bought the policy if he had been made properly aware of these things. 
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mr U enough information about the cost of the policy; and 
also to make him aware interest was charged on it. It said it couldn’t be held responsible if 
Mr U chose not to read that information, or chose not to query anything he was unsure of. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:

whether Creation gave advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to ensure the 
policy was suitable for Mr U’s needs; 

whether Creation gave Mr U information which was clear, fair and not misleading so he 
could make an informed choice about the policy he was buying; and

if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mr U is worse off as a 
result (in other words would he have done something different – such as not buy the 
policy – but for any shortcomings?).
did Creation recommend the policy to Mr U?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. And it has provided some 
paperwork to support that assertion; including a key facts document containing a policy 
summary and statement of price. These documents suggest that Creation didn’t give Mr U 
any specific recommendation. 
Mr U told us he can’t remember whether he was given advice or not. He says he felt 
pressured to buy the policy and wasn’t given any information about it. 
Ref: DRN7249072
2
On the available evidence I don’t think Creation advised Mr U to buy the policy. So it didn’t 
have to take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr U 
enough information to allow him to make an informed choice about the policy he was buying. 
did Creation give Mr U enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
It’s here I think Creation failed to live up to its responsibilities towards Mr U, because I find 
that it failed to properly disclose the total cost of the policy and also the interest charged on 
it. And I find that, if Mr U had known that information, he wouldn’t have bought the policy. 
When explaining why I’ve come to my findings I think it’s important to first consider the 
context in which the PPI sale took place. Mr U was in a shop, buying a DVD player and 
accessories costing a little over £150. It’s reasonable to assume that his focus would have 
been on choosing the right goods for his needs; not on buying insurance to protect any 
finance he might have chosen to take out to pay for those goods. It’s likely there was a lot 
going on at the point of sale. And Mr U says nothing was explained to him about the policy. 
Creation should have ensured that Mr U’s attention was drawn to the important information 
about the policy which would be likely to affect his decision making. One of the most 
important features was the total cost of the policy, including the interest that would be 
charged on it. This is especially so given that this was a single premium policy. 
Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, their cost structure is different – because the initial premium cost is 
often significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This is not a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and is not something Mr U was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was he likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy. 
In the case of the policy sold to Mr U, the premium cost £62.71. The interest on that 
premium was £77.01. So the interest on the premium more than doubled the total cost of the 
policy and – proportionally speaking – was substantially higher than the cost of the policy 
alone. 
I think this was an unusual aspect of this policy and something Mr U is unlikely to have 
expected. And I have no reason to doubt that Mr U would have considered this to be 
important information, in the context that he was buying non-essential goods of very modest 
cost. And also in the context that the total cost of the PPI was almost as much as the base 
cost of the goods he was buying. 
Creation says it did bring the interest to Mr U’s attention. Firstly it says the credit agreement 
set out both the initial premium cost and also the total amount payable (the cost of the 
goods, the PPI premium and the total interest charged on them both). Secondly it says Mr U 
would have seen the key facts document, which included a statement of price. The 
statement of price set out the cost of the policy and the interest payable on it separately; as 
well as the total cost of the PPI (premium and interest together).
I don’t agree with Creation’s arguments. 
I say this firstly because the credit agreement was the main finance document and Mr U 
could reasonably expect it to contain the important financial information he needed to know. 
But the credit agreement didn’t show the total cost of the PPI. Nor did it show the 
Ref: DRN7249072
3
PPI interest as a separate figure. It did show the total interest charged; but this was the 
interest on the credit for the goods and the PPI premium combined. 
Mr U would find it very difficult to work out, from the information in the credit agreement, 
what portion of the interest charge applied only to the PPI premium. And that’s if he first 
understood that interest was being charged on the PPI at all. The information in the credit 
agreement didn’t make that clear. So I’m not satisfied that this information was drawn to 
Mr U’s attention in a clear and prominent way. 
The statement of price was on page two of a document titled “Open + Direct CreditCover 
Life, Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance Policy 
Summary”. Nothing in the title of this document suggested it would contain important 
information about the cost of the policy. It also didn’t make Mr U aware that he must look at 
the second page to find out that interest was being charged on his PPI premium – and how 
much that would be. That wasn’t a prominent location. And I find it unlikely that Mr U would 
have expected to find that information in that location. Yet this was the only document which 
showed the PPI interest as a separate figure, or made clear that interest was being charged 
at all. 
The policy summary also didn’t require Mr U to sign to show he had read or received it. 
So I can’t be sure Mr U even saw this document, or that Creation brought it clearly to his 
attention at the point of sale. Even if he did see it, I’m not persuaded Mr U would have 
realised that it contained important information about the cost of the policy over and above 
what he would reasonably have expected to find in the credit agreement itself. Given that he 
didn’t have to sign the policy summary, I also don’t find it likely that Mr U would have given it 
the same level of attention he might have given to the credit agreement – which he did have 
to sign. 
I also note that none of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy. The monthly 
payments to the loan (including the PPI) were a little over £10, so I realise that the monthly 
cost of the PPI was likely to be low. However, telling Mr U the separate monthly cost of the 
PPI would have better helped him to understand the cost of it relative to what he was 
spending on the goods he was buying. As a matter of good industry practice this is 
information I might reasonably expect to see in relation to this type of policy. 
Creation says the onus was on Mr U to review the information given and ask for further 
information if he didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to give Mr U enough information about the main features and benefits of the 
policy to enable him to make an informed choice. 
For the reasons given above I find that Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it 
sold this policy to Mr U, as it didn’t make him properly aware of the cost of the policy. Had 
Mr U been given clearer information – and in the context that he was borrowing a modest 
sum where his monthly payments without the policy would have been very small – I think 
Mr U would be unlikely to have seen the policy as offering any real value to him. I find that 
Mr U wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing.
Finally (and whilst I’ve already decided to uphold this complaint for the reasons given 
above), I’ll add that I am also concerned about the way the ‘buy now pay later’ period was 
explained in the documents. 
During the 12-month buy now pay later period Mr U would qualify for life cover under the 
policy. If he repaid the cost of the goods before the end date he wouldn’t pay any interest on 
Ref: DRN7249072
4
the credit for the goods, or anything for the PPI. But, if he didn’t repay in the buy now pay 
later period, interest would be calculated from the date of the agreement. The whole balance 
outstanding (including the PPI premium) would be accruing interest at 32.4%. 
I understand that Mr U didn’t repay within the deferred period. So he would have paid a 
substantial (relative to the sums involved here) additional amount in interest on the single 
premium PPI policy in the first year. The only benefit he gained was what was described as 
‘free’ life cover. 
I have taken into consideration that the credit agreement did set out how interest would be 
calculated. However, I’m not satisfied that this information was enough to make Mr U aware 
of the implications of how the buy now pay later period would affect the interest payable on 
the PPI premium. This compounds the cost disclosure failing I have already set out above.
fair redress
I find that, if Mr U hadn’t bought the PPI policy, he would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
So he should be put back in the position he would have been in if the PPI policy hadn’t been 
sold. The loan and the PPI policy had a term of five years (including the buy now pay later 
period) so should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr U because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr U had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mr U actually paid and paying him the 
difference; and
•
paying Mr U interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B.
Write to Mr U to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mr U needs to take any further action will depend on his 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mr U should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if he is unsure of the approach it 
has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mr U compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
Ref: DRN7249072
5
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7249072
