K820x#14
complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a table she acquired with finance from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”).
background
Miss M says she bought a dining table and matching chairs in November 2017 and they 
were delivered the following month. She says she complained to the retailer in July 2018 
about splintering and scratching on the table top and that it was absorbent, so liquids left 
marks.
Miss M also says in response to her complaint the retailer said the table was made from 
completely untreated reclaimed timber and can mark easily. And that the product 
specification would’ve been discussed with her by the salesperson. But Miss M says this 
wasn’t mentioned by the salesperson or referred to in the care manual. And if it had been 
she would’ve taken steps to protect the table.
In addition, Miss M says the retailer has offered to supply a glass top for the table at a 
reduced cost. But she says if this had been mentioned when she was buying it, she would’ve 
bought a glass top then to prevent the table from getting damaged. And she says the table’s 
already damaged so there’s no point in putting a see through glass top on it now.
So, Miss M says her ideal outcome would be for the table to be replaced with a new one and 
she would put a glass top on it.   
Our investigator thought Miss M’s complaint shouldn’t be upheld. 
Miss M disagreed with the investigator’s conclusions. She gave us information from the 
retailer’s website which she said clearly describes the table as ‘reclaimed timber’ but she 
said it doesn’t state anywhere in the product description that it’s ‘untreated’. She said her 
invoice doesn’t even state it’s untreated. And she said the table’s clearly been mis-sold.        
So, the matter’s been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided not to uphold Miss M’s complaint and I’ll explain why.
CCF provided the finance Miss M used to buy her dining table. So, this means she has an 
equal right to seek redress from it for any breach of contract or misrepresentation as she has 
from the retailer. 
I see when Miss M complained to the retailer about this matter it arranged an independent 
inspection that found the table had ‘loads of marks and a big scratch’ but the inspector 
concluded this was ‘in-house’ damage and that there was no fault with the table, which was 
later confirmed as matching the in-store display model.
Ref: DRN7305660
2
So, in light of the contents of the independent inspection report, I can’t conclude the table 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M.
I note Miss M hasn’t suggested she was wrongly told the table was treated or finished, rather 
that she wasn’t told it was untreated. I’ve seen sales information for the range of furniture in 
question that says ‘The timber is untreated with no protection, so table mats, coasters, along 
with a tablecloth need to be used’. I don’t know whether Miss M saw this information before 
she bought the table and I don’t know what discussions took place between her and the 
salesperson. But from everything I’ve seen I don’t have enough information to conclude it’s 
most likely the table was misrepresented to her during the sales process.    
So, for these reasons, I can’t fairly and reasonably uphold Miss M’s complaint.   
my final decision
I don’t uphold Miss M’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2019.                     
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7305660
