K820x#14
complaint
Ms W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) is seeking to enforce a 
loan agreement against her that she didn’t sign.
background
In February 2015, Ms W set up business in partnership with a third party whom I’ll call “T”. 
Ms W says that T wanted to buy some flooring for the business from a firm I’ll call “D”. T 
couldn’t get finance for the flooring in her own name. So Ms W said she would act as 
guarantor to get the finance on the basis that T would pay all the instalments.
It appears that T paid the first instalment and then defaulted. Shortly afterwards, the 
partnership broke up and, with Ms W’s agreement, T continued the business on her own.   
Ms W then discovered that the loan for the flooring was in her sole name, and Creation 
asked her to meet the instalments. Ms W said she hadn’t signed, or received a copy of, any 
loan agreement with Creation, so shouldn’t have to repay the loan.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Ms W had clearly 
been involved with the purchase of the flooring from D. Her signature was on a cost and 
measurement document, even though she said she wasn’t party to any contract with D. And 
she was also aware of the loan from Creation and intended to act as guarantor for this.
Creation had explained that it didn’t offer guaranteed loans. Its records showed that Ms W 
had signed a loan agreement in her sole name electronically. To do this, she would have to 
have signed a copy on a screen using a stylus, or clicked on her name on a computer, on 
D’s premises. D would also have given her a hard copy of the agreement on its premises or 
emailed a copy to her.
Creation’s records also showed that Ms W had contacted it twice, first to give authority to T 
on the account, and secondly to change the bank direct debit details for the loan 
repayments.
So the adjudicator thought Ms W was aware of, and had signed, the loan agreement and so 
was liable for the repayments. Even if she had only signed as guarantor, she would still be 
fully liable along with T. We couldn’t go into technical issues of whether the loan agreement 
was enforceable or not – that was the role of the courts. The adjudicator couldn’t say that 
Creation was acting unreasonably in seeking repayment from Ms W.
Ms W responded to say, in summary, that she hadn’t signed the loan agreement, physically 
or electronically. If she had merely been a guarantor, T would have had some liability also, 
which would have put some pressure on her. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W doesn’t now recollect signing any document in favour of Creation, either physically or 
electronically. It isn’t possible now to know for certain all that happened between Ms W, T, 
and D in relation to the purchase of the flooring and the arrangement of the loan from 
Creation. 
Ref: DRN7237530
2
Creation’s records show that Ms W contacted it twice about the loan. And I think it’s most 
likely that she did sign the loan agreement electronically intending to become liable for 
repayment of the loan, even if only as guarantor. As a result, Creation paid the purchase 
price for the flooring to D.
So all in all I can’t say that it’s unreasonable for Creation to seek to recover the loan from  
Ms W.
my final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2016.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7237530
