K820x#14
complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd made a mistake in how it administered 
his account. He says he is now out of pocket and entitled to a refund.
He also complains that the way it went about asking him to pay back money was 
inappropriate.
background
Mr P had an agreement with Creation that it would take six monthly payments from him 
starting in September 2015. But for some reason it messed up and didn’t start taking 
payments from him until December 2015. It took three monthly payments from this point.
When Mr P found out about this he thought it just wasn’t right what Creation had done 
because it wasn’t what was agreed. And further he thought Creation should’ve given him 
30 days’ notice of what it was going to do and didn’t. Creation agreed to take no further 
payments and write off the remaining balance. And then Mr P used the direct debit 
guarantee to claim back all three of the payments taken.
Creation then began chasing him for these payments. Mr P objected to this because he 
thought he owed it nothing and hadn’t done anything other than exercise his rights, under 
the agreement and the direct debit guarantee. He suggested he was within his rights to 
charge it for his time in these circumstances.
Mr P and Creation couldn’t agree a way forward so Mr P came to us.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend upholding Mr P’s complaint.
Mr P rejected this recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I’ve decided not to uphold Mr P’s 
complaint. I explain below why this is.
There’s no doubt Creation made a mistake. It should’ve collected the money on the dates 
that it had agreed with Mr P. It didn’t. The question for me is does this mistake mean that it’s 
fair and reasonable that Mr P should now not have to pay Creation anything given that he 
has the goods he used the agreement with Creation to pay for. And given he borrowed the 
money on the clear understanding that he’d pay it back. I don’t think it does.
Mr P owed Creation money. It slipped up when it collected the money later than it should’ve 
done. And really it could’ve handled the situation better. That said, Mr P always did owe 
Creation the money and I can’t see why it would be fair and reasonable for him to pay it 
nothing now.
I don’t agree that the direct debit guarantee is meant to cover situations like this one. Mr P 
had I think authorised the direct debits. He’d authorised six payments from September 2015 
and Creation took three of those six payments. Just because it took fewer payments than it 
said it would I can’t see that this means it wasn’t authorised to take the payments. Even if I’m 
Ref: DRN7950632
2
wrong about this in the circumstances given that Mr P did owe the money. And, given that 
Creation has written off three months’ worth of payments already to which it was entitled, 
I think Mr P has suffered no financial loss. Rather he has ended up paying fifty per cent less 
than he’d agreed to in the first place – although I realise he sees it differently.
It follows that I think Creation has done nothing wrong in asking him to pay it back. It wasn’t 
inappropriate for it to do this just because Mr P had complained to it and us. I don’t see this 
as harassment. Neither do I think that it’s appropriate to ask Creation to pay his invoice for 
his time in dealing with this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr P’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2016.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7950632
