K821x#15
complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him interest on an interest free 
loan because his payment was late.
background
On 30 September 2017 Mr P ordered a sofa with a loan provided by Creation. It was 
delivered on 12 December. The terms of the loan allowed for Mr P to pay it in full within a 
specified period and so avoid paying any interest. Mr P says he was told the 12 month 
period began when the sofa was delivered. 
On 2 July 2018 Creation sent Mr P a letter to say he needed to pay off his loan by 31 July 
2018 to avoid paying interest. Mr P wrote to Creation on 11 July to ask why the payment was 
required by 31 July. It responded on 16 July 2018 informing him that it would investigate the 
special offer date and write to Mr P when this had been completed. I gather it next got in 
touch with him in October. In the meantime Mr P paid the outstanding balance of £908 on 30 
August. Creation sought to charge him interest and Mr P complained.
Creation rejected his complaint and so he brought it to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who recommend it be upheld. He said Creation was correct that the offer 
ended on 30 July 2018. However, he didn’t think Creation had responded promptly to Mr P’s 
query and he believed Mr P had grounds to believe that Creation would get back in touch 
with him before he had to repay £908 to qualify for the special offer. 
He said that he thought Mr P would have paid the £908 to ensure he met the terms of the 
special offer. As Creation created an expectation that it would let Mr P know when it had 
established the correct special offer date, the investigator didn’t think it had acted fairly in 
asking Mr P to repay the total of £1,619.64.
Creation didn’t agree and said that the documentation Mr P had signed showed the payment 
date of 31 July 2018 and this had been confirmed by the reminding letter. It hadn’t told him it 
would be extending the date when it responded to him on 16 July and so he should have 
paid it on time if he wished to avoid paying interest. As there were no extenuating 
circumstances it didn’t believe it had done anything wrong.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Mr P genuinely believed that he didn’t need to pay until 12 months after 
delivery. I accept the documentation given to him at the time of purchase states otherwise, 
but it is clear he had it in his mind that he had 12 months to pay and that didn’t begin running 
until delivery. 
If he had ignored the reminding letter in July 2018 I would have difficulty in upholding his 
complaint. But he wrote to Creation and queried the date. It now says the matter is clear that 
he had signed an agreement to pay by 31 July, but it chose not to tell him that when it wrote 
to him on 16 July. It is not clear why Creation needed to take much longer to address what it 
suggests is a straightforward matter.
Ref: DRN7409970
2
I am satisfied that Mr P was willing to pay at the appropriate time to avoid paying interest 
and he simply wanted clarification form Creation. This wasn’t forthcoming until after 31 July. 
Nor did the 16 July letter tell him to pay by 31 July to protect his position. Therefore, I believe 
his complaint should be upheld and he should not be charged interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to treat the loan as being repaid by 31 July and refund any interest and charges imposed 
incorrectly on Mr P. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to 
ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7409970
