K820x#13
complaint
Mr M first complains about a disputed credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited (“CCFL”). He also said that CCFL had incorrectly applied adverse entries to his 
credit file, but that CCFL’s agent agreed to remove the adverse entries when he partially 
settled his account, but they had not been removed.
background
Mr M entered into a loan agreement in August 2009 to buy furniture. Following a dispute, 
CCFL agreed to reduce the loan amount by almost £400, leaving almost £2,800 due, and 
change the end date of the agreement. Mr M said that a new agreement was needed in view 
of these changes. But because a new one was not issued, he did not make his payments. 
Mr M first complained in 2010 about the absence of a new agreement. CCFL said, in 
response, in July 2010, that a new contract was unnecessary, and it had given him a cost 
reduction to resolve his complaint. CCFL sent three further similar responses to 
Mr M’s complaint in September 2010, June 2011, and September 2011. Each letter said that 
he could raise his complaint with this service within six months of the date of each letter, but 
no complaint was sent. 
In January 2014, CCFL’s collection agent agreed with Mr M to accept the payment of £500 
in settlement of the outstanding loan balance of £2,745. Mr M said that the payment was 
made on condition that CCFL would remove the adverse entries on his credit file, but these 
were not removed. So Mr M complained again to CCFL in March 2014, mainly about the fact 
that the adverse entries had not been removed. When CCFL did not provide a substantive 
response to his complaint, Mr M complained to this service in August 2014, seeking the 
removal of the adverse entries.
CCFL objected to the complaint being considered as it had been referred to us more than six 
months after it had issued its final response letter in 2011.
The adjudicator said that she could not consider the first part of Mr M’s complaint as it had 
been referred to this service out of time. The adjudicator did not recommend that the second 
part of the complaint should be upheld. She said that she could not safely conclude that 
CCFL’s agent had agreed to remove the adverse information.
Mr M disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that the time limit for raising his 
complaint with this service started again when CCFL referred to his complaint rights in its 
letter dated 30 June 2014. He also said that he had sent CCFL’s agent a letter to confirm its 
agreement to remove all the adverse entries on his credit file as a condition to settling his 
account. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN7078434
2
The loan agreement dispute
I can see that Mr M’s first complaint to CCFL in 2010 was predominantly about the loan 
agreement dispute. CCFL gave Mr M four complaint responses about the dispute from July 
2010 to September 2011 and it also gave him details of his complaint rights to this service. 
Each letter explained to Mr M that he had to complain within six months and enclosed a 
leaflet about his complaint rights. 
The rules under which we operate provide that, where a financial business objects, we 
cannot consider a complaint which is referred to us more than six months after the date on 
which the business sends the complainant its final response letter, advising him that they 
may refer the complaint to this service. In this case, CCFL sent its last final response letter to 
Mr M’s initial complaint about the loan agreement dispute in September 2011. For this 
service to be able to consider this aspect of Mr M’s complaint, we would have needed to 
receive his complaint form by 5 March 2012. I also note that CCFL has also objected to this 
complaint being considered out of time. 
Mr M said that the time limit for raising his complaint with this service started again when 
CCFL referred to his complaint rights in its letter dated 30 June 2014. I disagree. The 2014 
complaint is predominantly about the removal of adverse entries from Mr M’s credit file, and 
in my view, a different complaint from the one he raised in 2010.
I do not know why Mr M did not complain to this service before 5 March 2012. But because 
he did not do so, I agree with the adjudicator that we are unable to consider this aspect of 
his complaint. I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Mr M. However, I do not have a 
free hand to investigate every complaint. I am entirely bound by the rules and I am unable to 
disregard them.
The removal of adverse entries from Mr M’s credit file
Loan providers are under an obligation to reflect a borrower’s payment record on his credit 
file. The credit file should be a true and accurate reflection of the account in question. 
I can see that CCFL asked Mr M in its complaint response letters in 2010 and 2011 to 
reinstate his direct debit instruction. But because he did not do so, his monthly payments 
were not made. As Mr M did not make his repayments, the entries on his credit file reflected 
this. Mr M said that a default had been applied to his credit file, but I have seen no evidence 
of this on his credit file. CCFL has also informed this service that the account was not 
defaulted. So the only adverse entries on Mr M’s credit file show late/missed payments. 
Mr M said that it was a condition of his agreement to settle his account that the adverse 
entries on his file would be removed. I note that this agreement was made by telephone with 
CCFL’s debt collection agent, V. V wrote to Mr M on the date of the telephone conversation 
in mid-January 2014 and said:-
“Provided that we receive the specified payments by the due dates, we will write off the 
remaining balance. We will then notify the credit agencies that we have written off the 
remaining balance on the account and that it is settled.”
There is nothing in the letter about adverse entries being removed. If this had been agreed, I 
would have expected to see reference to it in the letter. CCFL said that its collection agents 
would not have had the authority to agree this in any event. 
Ref: DRN7078434
3
I note that Mr M said that he had written to CCFL to confirm that the adverse entries would 
be removed. Neither he nor CCFL has a copy of the letter. If Mr M had disagreed with the 
contents of V’s letter in mid-January 2014, he could have raised the matter with CCFL or V 
to ensure that he had the confirmation before paying the £500 at the end of the month. I 
have not seen any evidence that he did so. So, having carefully considered the 
circumstances of this complaint, on balance, I do not consider that I have the grounds to 
require CCFL to remove the adverse entries from Mr M’s credit file. I appreciate that Mr M 
will be unhappy with my decision. However, he is not bound by it. If he does not wish to 
accept my decision, his legal rights remain intact.
my final decision
My decision is:-
1.
I am unable to consider Mr M’s first complaint about the loan agreement dispute as it 
does not fall within my jurisdiction; and
2.
I do not uphold Mr M’s second complaint about the removal of adverse entries from 
his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2015.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7078434
