K821x#12
complaint
Mrs M complains about an insurance policy sold to her by telephone in 2006 by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. The policy covered a £1,099, three-year loan. It provided 
life, personal accident and hospitalisation cover. Mrs M says the policy was mis-sold. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didn’t think Creation had made 
Mrs M aware the policy was optional, or made her aware of the cost of it. 
Creation disagreed, so the case has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
The policy Mrs M took out was not a ‘traditional’ payment protection insurance (PPI) policy; it 
didn’t provide accident, sickness and/or unemployment cover. However, I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our well-established approach to 
PPI complaints, which is published on our website. 
did Mrs M have a real choice about whether to buy the policy?
First and foremost, I have considered whether Creation made clear to Mrs M that the policy 
was optional – and that she could choose to buy it, or not. 
the telephone call
Creation says this policy was sold by telephone and Mrs M seems to agree with that. 
However, Creation hasn’t been able to provide a call recording. Instead it’s provided a ‘script’ 
it says would have been followed. 
The first thing I’ll say is that I have some doubts about whether the script Creation has 
provided is likely to have applied to this sale at all. I say this because:

it’s attached to the details of a loan for a completely different customer;

it’s dated around four months after Mrs M’s policy sale (and it isn’t clear whether it 
applied to earlier sales); and

it refers to cover for “death, accident, sickness or unemployment”, which is not the type 
of cover sold to Mrs M. 
However, even if I assume for the purposes of this decision that the script – or something 
very similar – was used, I’m not satisfied that Creation made the optional nature of the policy 
clear to Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN7979296
2
The script is short. It seems to have been described to the call handler as something that 
‘may prove useful’, rather than a script to be followed to the letter. It didn’t require the call 
handler to clearly explain that the policy was optional. And at no point did it require them to 
ask for Mrs M’s explicit consent before adding the policy to her loan. 
The opening part of the script says:
“I am now going to give you two quotations, one is with payment protection and one is 
without…”
Creation argues that giving quotes with and without payment protection would have made 
the optional nature of the policy clear to Mrs M. I don’t agree. For the reasons given above, 
I can’t know for certain what Mrs M was actually told at this point. And the script doesn’t offer 
any level of detail about precisely what form those quotes took, how they were delivered and 
also to what extent the ‘without’ quote would have been given any prominence. 
The statement about giving ‘with and without quotes’ was also immediately followed by a 
‘status disclosure’ statement; rather than the quotes themselves. So it is far from clear at 
what point in the call the quotes were actually given. I’m not satisfied that the reference to 
quotes is enough to show that the optional nature of the policy was made clear. 
I’ve also considered Mrs M’s recollection that she thought she had no choice about taking 
the policy out. When viewed in conjunction with a script which leaves me with no confidence 
that the optional nature of the policy was made explicitly, or even implicitly, clear – and 
where Mrs M’s consent to the policy was not asked for – I find Mrs M’s submissions 
plausible and persuasive. 
Similarly, I don’t find that the brief reference to statutory cancellation rights would have been 
enough to make Mrs M aware that taking the policy out was entirely her choice. Nor do 
I think it would have given her the confidence to cancel the policy where she hadn’t first been 
made aware that the policy was optional. 
the paperwork
Creation argues that the paperwork sent to Mrs M immediately after the telephone call would 
have made the optional nature of the policy clear. But again I have concerns about the 
information Creation has referred to, because:

Creation hasn’t been able to provide a copy of Mrs M’s actual, signed, credit agreement.

Creation first sent us a ’pre-contract credit information’ sheet and a reconstituted copy of 
a fixed-sum loan agreement it says Mrs M would have seen. Neither document 
mentioned the policy at all. And neither of them asked for Mrs M’s consent to add the 
policy to the loan.

After the adjudicator upheld the complaint Creation provided a sample copy of a 
different fixed-sum loan agreement it says Mrs M would have seen. It seems this would 
have given some separate information about the policy and would also have required 
Mrs M to tick a box and also sign a separate section of the credit agreement to say she 
wanted to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN7979296
3
Overall Creation hasn’t provided a very clear, or consistent, account of how this sale came 
about. And, as Creation has referred to different documents in its responses, it’s hard for me 
to be sure what Mrs M saw after the telephone call. But even if I accept that she saw the 
second type of credit agreement Creation referred to, I still don’t find that this would have 
made the optional nature of the policy clear to her, because:

The credit agreement already included the policy. And it followed on from a sales call in 
which the optional nature of the policy wasn’t explained and where Creation didn’t gain 
Mrs M’s consent to have it added to the loan. 

It’s reasonable to conclude that Mrs M would place greater reliance on what she was 
told during the telephone call, than on anything she received in writing afterwards; 
because it’s during the telephone call that the policy was sold to her. So it’s during the 
telephone call that Creation should have made clear to Mrs M the optional nature of the 
policy. I find that it failed to do so. 

The credit agreement didn’t say the policy was optional, or explain what would happen if 
the loan applicant chose not to tick and sign to accept the policy. 
Again I’m not persuaded that Mrs M would have understood from the information in the 
second credit agreement (assuming she saw it), that she had a real choice about whether to 
accept the policy. 
I’ve also considered the rest of the documents Creation says Mrs M would have been 
provided with; in particular the ‘policy summary’ which contained a demands and needs 
statement and a statement of price. I note that the very last sentence on the bottom of the 
statement of price says “It is not a requirement of your credit agreement with [Creation] that 
you purchase Creditcover.” But again I don’t think this was enough to make Mrs M aware of 
the optional nature of the policy, because:

it isn’t clear whether Mrs M ever saw this document or had it adequately drawn to her 
attention, or when and how this would have been done;

(even if she saw it) it’s unlikely Mrs M would have given the policy summary (which she 
didn’t have to sign) the same degree of attention as she would have given to the credit 
agreement (which she would have had to sign); and

(as I’ve already mentioned) the above sentence was the very last piece of information 
on page two of this document – and so it wasn’t in a prominent location and could be 
easily overlooked.
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Mrs M that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. And it has also failed to show that 
Mrs M actually consented to buy the policy. 
This is a significant and fundamental failing on Creation’s part. I therefore uphold Mrs M’s 
complaint on this basis. 
other failings
In light of my findings above it isn’t necessary for me to go any further, or to consider any 
other aspects of the way the policy was sold. 
Ref: DRN7979296
4
But, for completeness, I will add that I also agree with the adjudicator’s finding that Creation 
failed to meet Mrs M’s information needs. Specifically, that it failed to properly disclose the 
cost of the policy to Mrs M. I say this because:

(Leaving aside for a moment the wider concerns I’ve already expressed above) the 
script didn’t require the call handler to disclose the single premium cost, the interest 
charged on that single premium, or the total cost of the policy. Mrs M also wouldn’t have 
been told that the premium would be added to her loan and that it would bear interest. 
I have no reason to doubt that this would have been important information for Mrs M. 
And it should have been disclosed to her during the call, but wasn’t.

The credit agreement was the main finance document. But neither version Creation has 
provided showed the policy interest as a separate figure. Mrs M would have had to 
deduct the policy premium from the total cost to find out what the interest cost was. 
These items were likely to have been only two of several figures on the credit 
agreement – and were themselves only part of a large amount of overall information 
Mrs M would have had to review. I’m not persuaded she would have known that she 
would have to work out the policy interest herself – particularly off the back of a 
telephone conversation where the interest-bearing nature of the premium, as well as 
other important information about the cost of the policy, wasn’t discussed at all. 

I’ve already said that I can’t be sure Mrs M would have seen the policy summary and 
statement of price, or had it adequately drawn to her attention. Yet this was the only 
document which showed the interest being charged on the policy as a separate figure. 
Nothing in the title of this document suggests it would contain important information 
about the cost of the policy. Nor does it make Mrs M aware that she should look at the 
second page of this document to find out the interest being charged on her policy 
premium. That wasn’t a prominent location. 
This was a single premium policy; paid for in a very different way to most other insurance 
products. In particular, its cost structure was different – because the initial premium cost was 
significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This wasn’t a 
straightforward way to fund insurance and not something Mrs M was likely to have much 
understanding of. Nor was she likely to be in a position to appreciate that single premium 
policies can often be an expensive way of paying for cover over the more familiar and 
perhaps easier to understand regular premium policy.
I’ve also considered the overall context of this sale. Mrs M was taking a relatively modest 
loan, over a fairly short term. Her monthly payments would have been £38.91 without the 
policy – which Creation says cost £7.73 per month. 
The policy would settle off the loan if Mrs M died. Or it would pay a set lump sum if she 
suffered an accidental bodily injury which led, within 12 months, to loss of sight – or to loss 
of (or loss of use of) a limb. Otherwise it offered a daily benefit (paid monthly) if Mrs M was in 
hospital for more than 5 days in a row (to a maximum of 12 months benefit per claim). The 
circumstances in which the policy would pay benefit were therefore limited. 
It was Creation’s responsibility to provide Mrs M with enough information about the main 
features and benefits of the policy to enable her to make an informed choice. Creation 
should have ensured that Mrs M’s attention was drawn to the important information about 
the policy which would be likely to affect her decision making.
Ref: DRN7979296
5
In this case I’ve already concluded that Mrs M didn’t make a decision – because she wasn’t 
made aware the policy was optional and Creation hasn’t been able to show that she 
consented to buy it. But, even if Creation had made Mrs M aware that she had a choice – 
and could show she made that choice – I’m not satisfied that Creation met its responsibility 
to give her enough information to make an informed choice. 
I have no reason to doubt that the cost of the policy would have been important to Mrs M. 
Given the relatively limited cover the policy offered compared to the cost of it, I’m not 
persuaded that Mrs M would have seen the policy as offering any real value to her. So I’m 
not persuaded that she would have bought it if not for Creation’s failings. 
fair redress
I find that, if Mrs M hadn’t bought the policy, she would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
Therefore she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the policy hadn’t 
been sold. The loan and the policy had a term of three years so should by now have run 
their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs M because the policy was 
added to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs M had taken out the 
loan without the policy;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs M actually paid and paying her the difference; 
and 

paying Mrs M interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B. Write to Mrs M to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs M needs to take any further action will depend on 
her financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website. 
Mrs M should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs M compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7979296
