K821x#12
complaint
Mr Q had a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, which he says he repaid in full using 
his credit card. He complains that Creation does not accept the loan has been settled, and is 
still seeking payment from him. 
background
Mr Q said:

His understanding was that Creation would apply a £4 handling charge to his 
payment, made in July 2011, but found that the charge was 4% (a difference of 
£15.06)

He requested a £15.06 refund from Creation, but this was refused

He then contacted his credit card provider, who obtained a £15.06 refund for him in 
September 2011 using chargeback

Creation contacted him in July 2012, saying that he owed it over £600

He has credit card statements showing that he repaid the loan plus a handling 
charge, and later received a £15.06 refund

He sent this evidence to Creation in August 2012
Creation said:

It sent a final response letter to Mr Q in September 2012, saying that it received a 
chargeback request for the full payment he made in July 2011 (just under £500), 
which it actioned, and that it appeared an error may have been made by Mr Q’s card 
provider

It recommended that Mr Q contacted his card provider to resolve this matter
Mr Q referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2012. 
Creation provided a letter from its bank, which showed a chargeback request for the full 
payment made by Mr Q. However, his card provider’s bank provided evidence showing the 
initial full payment and a £15.06 chargeback. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that the problem appeared 
to have been caused by Creation’s bank, which had incorrectly stated that the chargeback 
request was for the full payment. 
Our adjudicator added that, in any event, the problem was not of Mr Q’s making, and he 
should not be disadvantaged as a result. As a result of this error, Mr Q had been chased for 
a payment he had already made, causing him a great deal of distress and inconvenience.
Our adjudicator recommended that Creation should:

Write off the debt

Ensure that Mr Q’s credit file correctly reflects his settlement of the loan in July 2011, 
and that no adverse data has been recorded after this date

Pay compensation of £250 to Mr Q for distress and inconvenience
Creation did not agree that it should write off the debt, or remove adverse information from 
Mr Q’s credit file. It said that a chargeback payment for the full amount had been made to his 
card provider’s bank, and that it was unable to recall these funds. However, it would be 
Ref: DRN7812230
2
willing to amend his credit file, and to remove interest charges applied to the debt, if he 
repaid his loan. It would also be willing to pay the compensation recommended. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
On balance, I find the evidence provided by the card provider’s bank stronger than that 
provided by Creation’s bank. Therefore, I find that I have come to the same conclusion as 
our adjudicator, for the same reasons. Mr Q should be returned to the position he was in, 
before this problem arose. He should also be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience this problem has caused him. 
There is a technical note about distress and inconvenience on our public website, in which 
cases are described where we have awarded modest compensation (below £300). I feel that 
compensation of £250 in this instance (as recommended by our adjudicator) is consistent 
with those case descriptions and awards, and is appropriate given the circumstances of 
Mr Q’s complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:
1.
To write off the debt it has attributed to Mr Q,
2.
To ensure that Mr Q’s credit file correctly reflects his settlement of the loan in 
July 2011, and that no adverse data relating to his loan has been recorded after this 
date,
3.
To pay compensation of £250 directly to Mr Q, 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7812230
