K821x#12
complaint
Mrs B complains that a recliner and sofa she bought using finance from 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were faulty on delivery and should have been replaced.  
background
Mrs B notified the driver on receipt of the goods that there were problems and signed to this 
effect. The retailer has carried out repairs but Mrs B says the goods are still not functioning 
as they should as the backs have a manufacturer’s defect.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She said that under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, as the retailer had failed to replace the faulty goods 
and the repairs were not completed to the customer’s satisfaction, the lender must either 
replace the goods or if this was not possible, it should cancel the finance agreement, 
refunding any payments made, and correcting any information on Mrs B’s credit file. With 
both options she recommended a payment of £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is contradictory, 
incomplete or inconclusive (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the balance 
of probabilities – in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I am not satisfied that Creation has met its obligations. The faults were reported at the point 
of delivery and the retailer has now agreed that there was a manufacturing defect in the 
recliner. Whilst this was repaired, the evidence is contradictory as to whether this left Mrs B 
with a recliner of the quality and functionality that she could reasonably expect. With regards 
to the sofa, which she reported to have the same problem, we have seen no inspection 
report despite a number of requests. As a result, there is insufficient evidence for me to 
conclude that there is no issue with the sofa. It does not appear that Creation has at any 
point inspected the goods independently, or assessed the repair work that was done. 
For these reasons, on balance, I find it most likely that Mrs B received substandard goods 
and is entitled to a refund. In addition, I award her £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
to:

cancel the finance agreement;

refund all payments made to date;

pay annual interest of 8% simple on all payments from the date each was made until 
the date of settlement; and

remove this agreement from Mrs B’s credit record and instruct the credit reference 
agencies to do the same. 
Ref: DRN7612792
2
It can of course recover the goods if it wishes to.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7612792
