K820x#14
complaint
Mr A, represented by Mrs A, complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd continued to 
record information on his credit file after the settlement amount on his fixed sum loan 
agreement had been paid.
background
Mrs A says that Mr A part exchanged his vehicle and the settlement amount due under his 
agreement was paid. However, a number of months later Mr A checked his credit file and 
there was still an outstanding amount recorded by the business. Mrs A says that she was 
then told that the incorrect settlement amount had been paid. She says she had a copy of 
the settlement amount that the business had provided which proved the correct amount had 
been paid.
 
The business says that it accepted a mistake had been made but says that it has done 
enough to put Mr A back in the position he would have been had the mistake not been 
made. It says it requested that Mr A’s credit file be amended to show settlement on 23 May 
2016, it waived the interest and the account was closed. It says that Mr A was provided with 
£30 compensation in recognition of the calls made but as Mrs A did not consider this enough 
it offered to pay a total of £75 compensation. 
The adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said our role is not to punish the business 
but where a mistake has been made to ensure the customer is put back in the position they 
would have been had the mistake not been made. He said that that the business had made 
a reasonable attempt to do this. He noted the concerns about the impact the issue had on 
Mr A’s credit file before the correction was made but said that we would need to see 
evidence of consequential losses to consider this further.
Mrs A did not accept the adjudicator’s view. She said that had she not flagged the issue with 
the business the debt would still show on Mr A’s credit file and he would have become liable 
for it again at some point in the future. She said the account was only closed because she 
raised the issue. Mrs A also said that the £30 payment appeared in the account without any 
notification or communication.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case a mistake was made and the business has accepted this. I appreciate Mrs A’s 
comments that had she not raised the issue then the outstanding amount could have 
continued to be reported on Mr A’s credit file and that they may have been chased for this at 
a later date. However the issue was reported by Mrs A and action taken by the business and 
it is this situation I have to consider.  
Where a mistake has been made, my role is to ensure that the customer is put back in the 
position they would have been had the mistake not been made and, where appropriate, to 
award compensation.
Ref: DRN7813498
2
This issue arose because the business provided a wrong settlement figure. Mr A paid the 
settlement figure he was provided with within the timeframe. However, following this 
payment, information was still recorded on this credit file in regard to the loan.
The business accepted that it had made a mistake and said that it would amend Mr A’s 
credit file to reflect the correct settlement date. The account was closed with the settlement 
amount paid clearing the loan. I also note that the business has said some interest was 
waived. Based on these actions I find that the business has done enough to put Mr A back in 
the position he would have been had the mistake not been made.
Mrs A says that they should be compensated for this issue. I can understand why she says 
this. However, I have no evidence to suggest that the information recorded on Mr A’s credit 
file caused him any financial loss. 
I accept that Mrs A had to contact the business about this issue and I find it reasonable that 
the business paid £30 to cover the cost of calls. I also note that the settlement amount paid 
was less than the amount that would have needed to be paid had the correct figure been 
provided by the business. The business also offered a further £45 compensation.
Overall I find that the business has acted reasonably in this case and that based on the 
information I have seen, I find that Mr A has been put back in the position he would have 
been had the mistake not been made.
I find that the actions already taken by the business have been fair and I do not require it to 
do anything further to settle this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2017.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7813498
