K820x#14
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) failed to tell him that his loan 
was in arrears. He is also unhappy about the way it reported his account to the credit 
reference agencies.
background
In January 2011, Mr C took out a loan with Creation. He missed the first few months 
payments and as a result arrears accrued on the account. In July 2011, Mr C set up a direct 
debit to pay off the loan and he continued to make payments until the loan finished and the 
arrears were cleared in October 2014.
When he later accessed his credit file, he discovered the account had been reported as 
being in arrears for the lifetime of the loan. Mr C said he had not been aware that the 
account had remained in arrears as he thought the monthly direct debit had brought the loan 
up to date. He said Creation should have done more to notify him that this was not the case. 
Mr C said this has had a negative impact on his ability to obtain credit. 
He complained to Creation. It agreed to amend the fifth month of the loan to show it had 
been four months in arrears rather than ‘unclassified’. But it said it was right to report the 
remaining years of the loan as consistently three months in arrears as this was an accurate 
reflection of how he had managed the account. 
He asked us to look at his complaint. Our adjudicator did not think Creation had acted 
unfairly. 
Mr C did not agree and so asked for an ombudsman’s decision. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation said although the loan was taken out in January 2011 no payments were received 
until July 2011. It said the initial direct debit had been cancelled by Mr C. And although a 
one-off payment was made in July 2011 and a direct debit was then set up, this did not clear 
the arrears/charges and so they were carried forward to the end of the agreement. As a 
direct debit had been set up - no further letters about the arrears were triggered. And it 
reported to the credit reference agencies that the loan had been in arrears throughout. It said 
this was an accurate reflection of the account. 
I acknowledge what Mr C has told us about changing his bank account at the beginning of 
the loan and that he couldn’t fully recall the direct debit being cancelled. But the onus was on 
him to make sure that the account was being properly maintained. He did contact Creation in 
July 2011 having received letters about the arrears. It sent us the most recent template of 
those letters (and it said the information has remained largely unchanged). I can see they 
warn that an account in arrears can be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
I have listened to the telephone call from July 2011 when Mr C made the first payment on 
the account. The direct debit was re-instated and Mr C paid £50 of the arrears (which 
including charges was around £300). Mr C said he could not pay all of the arrears at that 
Ref: DRN7270538
2
time. It was made clear that the direct debit would not clear the arrears and a separate 
arrangement to pay was made to settle the arrears. It was agreed that Mr C would contact 
Creation to make a manual payment of £50 each month. It is clear Mr C did not stick to that 
payment plan. 
So overall, I think it should have been clear to Mr C that the arrears had not been brought up 
to date and therefore remained outstanding. And that the monthly direct debit would not 
bring the account back up to date. 
Mr C said Creation should have done more to notify him later on in the lifetime of the loan 
that the account was still in arrears. Creation accepts it did not write to Mr C again about the 
arrears until April 2014 after the loan had been due to finish. It said it would have sent him 
annual statements but it said they may not necessarily have shown the arrears. So I can’t be 
sure that the arrears were brought to his attention between July 2011 and April 2014. On 
balance, I think that they probably were not and I do think that Creation should have done 
something to bring the outstanding arrears to Mr C’s attention during that time. 
That said, the key question here is whether Mr C would have acted differently to address the 
arrears had Creation written to him again about them. I can see Mr C did not miss any of the 
remaining payments on the loan. And when he was sent the arrears letter in April 2014 he 
did contact it to make payment and over the course of the next six months cleared the 
outstanding arrears on the loan.
However, I note he failed to keep to the arrangement to pay set up in July 2011 to clear the 
arrears over six months. Presumably if he had been able to clear the arrears at that time he 
would have. And over the course of the last six months of the loan it seems that two 
repayment plans were broken, a direct debit returned, three default notices were sent and 
the debt was ultimately passed to a third party. 
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances, I think Creation gave Mr C an 
opportunity to clear the arrears by way of a repayment plan that he did not stick to in July 
2011. Nor did he get in touch with Creation after he had broken the plan. I think he struggled 
to clear the arrears in April 2014. And I don’t think he would have managed to pay the 
arrears in addition to his monthly payments during the lifetime of the loan. Ultimately, Mr C 
knew that the arrears still existed. The earlier letters sent to Mr C about the arrears made it 
clear that Creation would report the arrears to the credit reference agencies. On balance, 
I am not satisfied that Mr C would have cleared the arrears had Creation written to him in 
either 2012 or 2013 to remind him of them. 
Overall, although I recognise Mr C’s frustration, I don’t think I can reasonably direct Creation 
to change the information that it has recorded on his credit file.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2016.
Siobhan Kelly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7270538
