K821x#12
complaint
Mr N complains that he was mis-sold a single premium payment protection insurance (“PPI”) 
policy by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) which was taken out in connection 
with a loan to purchase a television in 2006. 
The PPI had a term of three years, which matched the term of the loan. Under the 
arrangements, 12 months’ free credit was offered. This meant the loan and PPI repayments 
were effectively deferred for 12 months. During this “special offer” period, the PPI policy 
offered life cover. After that, for the three years the finance would run if full payment for the 
goods was not made by the end of the special offer period, the policy provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment, as well as life cover. 
Mr N is represented by a claims management company.
background
The adjudicator concluded that the complaint should be upheld because Creation didn’t do 
enough to make the cost of the policy clear to Mr N. Creation does not agree with the 
adjudicator’s view and so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above but, in reaching my decision, 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I have also taken account of any relevant 
regulatory rules, the law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
The relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those set out in our well-
established general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI, which is published on our 
website. The key questions I need to consider therefore are:

whether, in giving any advice, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr N’s needs; and 

whether Creation gave Mr N information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he 
was buying.
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policy, I need to consider whether Mr N 
would have acted differently if it had not done so.
did Creation recommend the policy to Mr N?
I understand this policy was sold during a meeting in a store when Mr N arranged the 
finance for his television. 
Mr N says Creation recommended the policy to him. Creation says it did not recommend the 
policy but gave him information so he could decide for himself whether the policy was 
suitable. Creation has provided some paperwork to support its position, including a key facts 
document and a policy summary which included a statement of price. These documents 
suggest that Creation didn’t give Mr N any specific recommendation. 
Ref: DRN7279384
2
So, on balance – and based on the available evidence – I am persuaded Creation did not 
advise Mr N to take out the policy. 
Therefore Creation did not have to assess the suitability of the policy for Mr N’s 
circumstances. However, it did have to provide him with information about the cover that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so that he was able to make a proper and fully informed 
decision about whether to take out the policy. 
I am not satisfied that Creation did so in this case and it is on this point that I intend to focus. 
were Mr N’s information needs met?
I am not satisfied that Creation clearly presented the cost of the policy to Mr N. I think this is 
a significant failing for reasons I’ll explain in detail below. 
Essentially, though, I don’t think Creation explained clearly enough to Mr N how much 
interest he would pay on the PPI premium if the loan and the policy ran their full term.
I’ve reached my decision taking into account where and how the policy was sold and also 
the type of policy Mr N was sold – a single premium PPI policy. 
Mr N was in a shop, buying a television costing around £1400. It’s reasonable to assume 
that Mr N’s main focus would have been on choosing the television he wanted and not on 
buying insurance to protect any finance he was choosing to take out to pay for it. It’s likely 
there was a lot going on at the time and a lot for Mr N to think about. Only a limited amount 
of his attention was likely to have been given to the information about the policy. 
And Mr N was being sold a single premium PPI policy. These policies are paid for in a very 
different way to most other insurance products. In particular, the cost structure of the policy – 
how the policy’s up-front cost is often significantly increased because interest is added to it 
over the term of the loan – is different. This is not a straightforward way to fund insurance 
and it is not something Mr N was likely to have much understanding of. Nor was he likely to 
be in a position to appreciate that single premium policies can often be an expensive way of 
paying for cover over the more familiar and perhaps easier to understand regular premium 
policy. 
So, if some relevant information about the cost of the policy was not disclosed to Mr N – 
such as the amount of interest that would be payable on the premium he was paying for it – 
I think it follows the risk increases that he might not have a clear understanding of the policy. 
I’ll now turn to the specifics of the policy and how it was sold. 
The premium on the policy was around £466. The interest on the premium was around £415. 
So, the interest very nearly doubled the total cost of the policy. I think this was an unusual 
aspect of this policy and something Mr N is unlikely to have expected. And I have no reason 
to doubt that he would have considered this to be important information. I say this especially 
since he was buying a non-essential item of fairly modest cost. And also because the total 
cost of the PPI (nearly £900) amounted to a significant proportion (around 62%) of the base 
cost of Mr N’s television (around £1400). 
Ref: DRN7279384
3
Creation says it did bring the interest to Mr N’s attention. First, it says the credit agreement 
set out both the premium cost and the total cost (the premium plus the interest). Second, it 
says Mr N would have seen the policy summary I referred to above, which included a 
statement of price. The statement of price set out the premium cost and the interest payable 
on it separately.
I don’t agree with what Creation says, for the following reasons: 

The credit agreement, which Mr N signed, was the main finance document. Mr N could 
reasonably expect it to contain the important financial information he needed to know. 
But it didn’t. It didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. Mr N would have had to 
deduct the PPI premium from the total cost to find out what the interest cost was. 

The PPI premium cost and the total amount payable for the policy were only two of 
many figures on the credit agreement. And those figures were only part of a large 
amount of overall information Mr N would have had to take in, in what is likely to have 
been a busy retail environment. I’m not persuaded Mr N would have known he would 
have to work out the PPI interest himself, based on the information in the credit 
agreement. And relying on him to do his own calculations in these circumstances 
couldn’t reasonably be said to be drawing this information to his attention in a clear way. 
 

The statement of price was on page two of a policy summary which was headed “Life, 
Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Payment Protection Insurance Policy 
Summary”. Nothing in its heading suggests it would contain important information about 
the cost of the policy. Nor does it make Mr N aware that he should look at the second 
page of the document to find out the interest being charged on his PPI premium. The 
information wasn’t in a prominent position. Yet this was the only document which 
showed the PPI interest as a separate figure. 
The policy summary also didn’t require Mr N to sign to show he had read or received it. 
So I can’t be sure he even saw this document, or that Creation brought it clearly to his 
attention at the time. Even if he did see it, I’m not persuaded Mr N would have realised 
that it contained important information about the cost of the policy over and above what 
he would reasonably have expected to find in the credit agreement itself. Given that he 
didn’t have to sign the policy summary, I also don’t find it likely that Mr N would have 
given it the same level of attention he might have given to the credit agreement – which 
he did have to sign. 

I also note that none of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy. Creation 
tells us this was around £25 (compared to the monthly payments under the loan, with 
PPI included, of just under £100). Had they done so, this might have helped Mr N 
understand the cost of the PPI relative to what he was spending on the television he 
was buying. As a matter of good industry practice, this is information I might reasonably 
expect to see in relation to this type of policy. 

Finally, I also have concerns about the 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ period and the way 
this was explained in the credit agreement. During the deferred period Mr N would 
qualify for life cover under the policy. And if he repaid the finance before the end date he 
wouldn’t pay any interest on his loan, or anything for the PPI. But, if he didn’t repay 
during the deferred period, interest would be calculated from the date of the agreement. 
The whole balance outstanding (which included the PPI premium) would be accruing 
interest at 29.8% for the whole of the deferred period. 
Ref: DRN7279384
4
If Mr N didn’t repay within the deferred period (and he didn’t do so) he would have paid 
a substantial additional amount in interest on the single premium PPI policy in the first 
year, when the only benefit he got was the “free” life cover. I have taken into 
consideration that the credit agreement did set out how interest would be calculated. 
However, it was in a paragraph of small, closely-spaced text. It would not have been 
easy for Mr N to find. And, again, I’m not satisfied that this information was enough to 
make Mr N aware of the implications of how the deferred period would affect the interest 
payable on the PPI premium.  
Creation says the onus was on Mr N to review thoroughly the information he was given to 
ensure he had a full understanding before deciding to continue. That isn’t correct. It was 
Creation’s responsibility, clearly and fairly, to provide Mr N with enough information about 
the main features and benefits of the policy to enable him to make an informed choice. And, 
in this case, for the reasons I have given, I don’t think it did.
did the failing result in a difference to Mr N’s decision?
Establishing a clear (and significant) failing is not sufficient for me to uphold the complaint. 
I must also consider whether this failing would have made a difference to Mr N’s decision to 
purchase the policy. 
In this case and in his particular circumstances, I think it would have done. He took the 
PPI out alongside a purchase that was non-essential and of only moderate value. I do not 
think that, as Mr N went shopping for his television, obtaining payment protection for 
accident, sickness and unemployment in relation to the loan he was getting to pay for them 
is likely to have been at the forefront of his mind in the way it might have been if, say, the 
loan was much larger, or secured on his home. 
And his decision to buy the policy might well have been motivated at least in part by the 
initial period of free (assuming the loan was repaid within 12 months) life cover that was 
offered, and how that may have been presented to him.
And nor do I have reason to believe that the cost of the cover he was purchasing wouldn’t 
have been important to him, or that he would have considered that a policy whose cost was 
increased by around 89% as a result of being financed, and which added £25 to his monthly 
repayments (when they would have been only around £75 without the addition of PPI) – 
when neither of these things were made clear to him – represented fair value for him. 
Had Mr N been given clearer information, and knowing that he was making a relatively 
insignificant purchase on credit, I think Mr N is unlikely to have seen enough value in the 
policy to decide to buy it.
conclusion 
It follows that I do not think Creation met Mr N’s information needs, and that I think with 
better and clearer information about the cost of the policy Mr N is likely to have declined it; 
so I uphold his complaint.
fair compensation
I find that, if Mr N hadn’t bought the PPI policy, he would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
Therefore he should be put back in the position he would have been in if the PPI policy 
hadn’t been sold. 
Ref: DRN7279384
5
The loan and the PPI policy had a term of four years (including the deferred period) so 
should by now have run their course. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr N because PPI was added 
to the loan by:
  calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr N had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
  subtracting those amounts from what Mr N actually paid and paying him the 
difference; and 
  paying Mr N interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate 
of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is 
paid†.
B. Write to Mr N to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mr N needs to take any further action will depend on his 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mr N should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if he is unsure of the approach it 
has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mr N redress calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above under 
“fair compensation”.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279384
