K821x#14
complaint
Mr S complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold his loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S took out the PPI policy with a loan when he bought some furniture in September 2005. 
Creation and Mr S agreed that the sale took place in the store, and that Mr S wasn’t advised 
to take the cover. Mr S borrowed £1,578 for the furniture, and the PPI cost an additional 
£514.61. This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. So if Mr S repaid the loan within that 
time he wouldn’t pay interest. After that, the loan was set to be repaid over 36 months, with 
the monthly payments including the PPI premium and a further £458.87 in interest on the 
premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr S’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr S would have bought the policy if it 
had.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr S was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr S’s complaint. This is because I agree with the adjudicator that 
Creation didn’t properly explain to Mr S how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr S to work it out 
for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

There was a ‘statement of price’ which did set out the interest. But it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr S would expect it to be. And I 
can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a store and his 
attention was on buying furniture – not insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr S better understand what the policy was costing him.  

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr S aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t repay the 
loan within the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at 
29.8%. This meant Mr S would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI cost 
for the first year, but the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN7447672
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr S was borrowing. This was unusual and I think Mr 
S would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. 
Especially as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 
Overall I don’t think Mr S would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him. So for these reasons, I uphold Mr S’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was higher than it should have been and 
he paid more than he should have done each month. So he needs to get back the extra he 
has paid. 
So, Creation should:

work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid each month without PPI;

add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back (the rate of interest is 8% a year†);

if Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can deduct what Mr S 
received from what’s due to him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2015.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7447672
