K822x
complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd did not properly collect his direct debit 
payments. 
background
Mr H took out a finance agreement with Creation to pay for his car insurance. In August and 
September 2014 Mr H’s direct debits were returned unpaid. Mr H explained that he was 
having financial difficulties and needed to move his payment dates. He made a card 
payment to cover the unpaid direct debit. Creation didn’t tell Mr H that the direct debit was no 
longer active because it had been returned twice. This meant that no payment was collected 
in October and the insurance company cancelled Mr H’s policy. Because of this Mr H lost his 
no claims discount. He explains that he had to re-insure with the same company using 
finance from Creation because the cancelled policy affected his ability to get reasonably 
priced insurance from elsewhere. Mr H explained that under the new agreement he had 
another problem with his direct debit and it was collected twice in the same month.   
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
problems with the direct debit could have been avoided if Mr H had been told the correct 
information by Creation. She thought that Creation should pay Mr H £300 to compensate for 
the expenses and the upset and anxiety. Creation agreed but Mr H didn’t think this was 
enough to compensate for all of the costs of the cancelled insurance.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has agreed with the adjudicator that it should have told Mr H that the direct debit 
was not in place. It has also agreed to pay Mr H £250 for the first problem and another £50 
for taking the payment twice. I think this is reasonable and I can’t fairly ask Creation to pay 
any more.
Mr H explains that he has had to pay much more than this because of the lost no claims 
discount and because he couldn’t shop around for car insurance because of the cancelled 
policy. I can understand why Mr H is upset about this and thinks that Creation is responsible 
but I don’t agree.
The no claims discount is something that is given by the insurance company. Creation can’t 
re-instate it. I can understand that the cancelled policy had an effect on the price of Mr H’s 
insurance for the next year and Creation has already discounted the finance for the new 
policy by £70 to reflect the error. I know that Mr H explains he couldn’t get cheaper 
insurance elsewhere but I haven’t seen any quotes. I think the further £250 recommended 
by the adjudicator fairly reflects the extra costs for the year.
I can understand Mr H’s point that this is an ongoing problem because he will always have 
lost one year to count towards his no claims discount. But car insurance prices depend on a 
number of things and no claims bonus can be lost or reduced. I don’t think it would be fair to 
ask Creation to pay for this uncertain loss.
Ref: DRN7629581
2
I agree with the adjudicator that the £50 compensation recommended is fair and reasonable 
to reflect the trouble and upset caused by not explaining that Mr H would have to pay twice 
in one month. But the instalments were due and so he hasn’t lost out because of this.
Overall, I think the £300 recommended by the adjudicator is fair and reasonable and I can’t 
ask Creation to pay any more.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr H £300. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2015.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7629581
