K820x#14
complaint
This complaint is about a loan payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy taken out in 2010. 
Mr and Mrs B say Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold them the PPI. The credit was 
solely in Mr B’s name and the PPI covered Mr B. Mr and Mrs B jointly brought this complaint, 
but I’ll only refer to Mr B in my decision.  
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr B’s case.
I’ve decided the policy wasn’t mis-sold because:

I think Creation made it clear that Mr B didn’t have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out – although I can understand why he may not remember this.
I haven’t seen any of the paperwork completed when Mr B applied for the loan. But I 
have seen a separate ‘Payment Plus Acceptance Form’ (PPI) sent to Mr B by post 
following his application for credit.
This form briefly outlines the cost of PPI per month. It also states ‘The purchase of 
Creation Consumer Finance Payment Plus Insurance is not a requirement of your 
finance agreement.’ 
Mr B has then signed separately below a statement that reads; ‘I wish to take out 
Payment Plus to cover my existing Consumer Finance borrowing.’ Mr B has also 
completed and signed a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI.
I’ve considered what Mr B has said about going to collect his car and noticing that the 
cost per month had increased. Mr B has said it was at this point that he was told 
insurance had been added but it wasn’t until a later date that he noticed it was PPI. 
Creation has said that shortly after the sale, the insurers would have sent more 
information about the PPI, including the full terms and conditions. 
So, I think Mr B would reasonably have been aware that he had PPI at that point or 
at the very least questioned it with Creation – much sooner than he did. But the 
evidence is that PPI remained on the account for some time.
Although Mr B has said he doesn’t recall signing for PPI, the evidence I’ve seen 
doesn’t support what Mr B has said. It’s a possibility, given the time that’s passed, 
that Mr B may not recall everything that happened clearly. The form I’ve seen 
presented PPI as optional and Mr B signed to give his consent to taking it out.
I’ve also noted that there are inconsistencies in Mr B’s testimony. For example, in his 
PPI questionnaire he’s said that PPI was automatically added and when he 
questioned it, he was told that the loan would not be agreed without taking PPI. But 
this contradicts what he’s then said about not knowing that he had PPI until a later 
date. In any case, the separate form he completed to take PPI states, ‘The purchase 
Ref: DRN7336702
2
of Creation Consumer Finance Payment Plus Insurance is not a requirement of your 
finance agreement.’ 

Creation didn’t recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didn’t have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him.

It’s possible the information Creation gave Mr B about the PPI wasn’t as clear as it 
should’ve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. 
Based on what I’ve seen of his circumstances at the time it doesn’t look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
don’t think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 

Which means Creation doesn’t have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Creation will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 

When the policy was sold, Creation expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about 
that. Because Creation didn’t tell Mr B, that was unfair. 

To put that right, Creation has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
I’ve thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points don’t change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Creation has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Creation should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Creation should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Creation should also pay Mr B 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesn’t pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasn’t mis-sold – so Creation Consumer Finance Ltd does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Creation Consumer Finance Ltd does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN7336702
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2019.
Daniel O’Shea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336702
