K822x
Complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
Mrs D was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as ‘P’, which supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a subsequent meeting at her home, Mrs D agreed to enter into a 
contract for P to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £7,300. To fund this, 
Mrs D also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mrs D made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA via her representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mrs D that the solar panel system would be ‘self-funded’ 
and that her monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) 
income as well as any savings she’d make by using the electricity generated by the panels 
rather than buying it from her energy provider. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the 
monthly loan repayments had been much higher than any income and savings Mrs D had 
made.
In its final response letter, Creation offered to reduce the loan and associated interest by 
25%. Mrs D didn’t accept this offer and referred her complaint to this service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer of compensation to resolve the 
complaint. It said it had worked out the potential income and savings to Mrs D over the term 
of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan to ensure that she didn’t pay any more 
than this over the original 10 year term of the loan. As this meant that Mrs D had been 
paying more each month than she should have been, Creation gave her the following four 
options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
1.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs D 
continues to pay her current monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early,
2.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to pay a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.
the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of her loan term.
Creation also offered to pay Mrs D £100 to recognise the trouble and upset caused.
One of our investigators looked into the offer put forward by Creation. She was satisfied that 
it was fair. Mrs D, via her representative, didn’t. It provided its own calculation as to how the 
refund should be recalculated and said that Mrs D should receive a refund of around £9,000. 
This included a payment of £1,000 to cover the costs of a replacement inverter.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me to review.
 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN7446337
2
Mrs D says that she was cold-called and during a subsequent sales meeting at her home 
told that the solar panel system would be entirely self-financing. As neither Creation nor Mrs 
D dispute that P misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system this decision will deal 
with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably and with minimum formality. In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances.
I’ve considered whether it would be fair to put Mrs D back in the position she would have 
been in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be fair 
or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panel system from her home. Rather, I 
think the fair outcome here is to put Mrs D in a position where the solar panels are self-
funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mrs D to keep the solar panels, I’m 
satisfied that she will likely benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward 
(i.e. after the term of the loan has finished).
Mrs D’s representative accepts the principle of making the panels self-funding over the term 
of the original loan is fair. However, it doesn’t agree with the method that has been used and 
has provided its own calculation.
I’ve reviewed the calculation that Mrs D’s representative has provided. I’ve noted that its 
calculation doesn’t include any electricity savings.
So, I’ve gone on to consider whether it is fair and reasonable to take electricity savings into 
account when deciding fair compensation. I think it is fair to take into account the electricity 
generated by the solar panel system. On the one hand Mrs D has to pay her loan and for 
any electricity used in addition to that generated by the solar panels. And on the other, she 
can off-set those payments by the FIT income payments and the savings associated with the 
electricity generated by the solar panels. I consider it would be unfair to ignore the electricity 
generated and used by Mrs D when calculating fair compensation. 
I’ve carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar panels. This methodology is based on the actual performance 
and estimated future performance of Mrs D’s solar panel system.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mrs D’s 
solar panel system it will use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption 
rate of 37%. This is the amount of electricity generated by Mrs D’s solar panels that she is 
expected to use, or self-consume, rather than buying it from her energy provider. 
I’m satisfied that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and reasonable in this case. I’m 
of the view that this takes into account changing consumer occupancy habits over the 
lifetime of the solar panels. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m satisfied that it is highly likely 
that Mrs D will continue to benefit from the system as a result of a reduction in her electricity 
bills because of the electricity generated by the panels and the FIT payments.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation. These include electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
Ref: DRN7446337
3
actual average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mrs D’s representative has also included a payment of £1,000 within in its calculation, to 
cover the cost of a replacement inverter.
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of 
the solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for Mrs D is to make the solar 
panels self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid Mrs D 
is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar panel system by way of savings and 
FIT income going forward. In addition, the options proposed by Creation provide Mrs D with 
the flexibility to receive her overpayments as a lump sum.
Based on the available information, I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than 
cover any future maintenance costs and Mrs D has the option to use her compensation 
payment to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of this I’m not persuaded that Creation should make an award for maintenance and 
repair costs.
In summary, I’m satisfied that the offer put forward by Creation to make Mrs D’s solar panel 
system self-funding over the term of the original loan to be fair.
By making the system self-funding, Creation has calculated that Mrs D should have been 
paying less each month than she has been. This has meant that she has overpaid each 
month. As Mrs D has been deprived of any monthly overpayment, Creation has added 8% 
simple interest from the date of the overpayment until the date of its offer of compensation 
and this is in line with what I would expect. For clarity, Creation has also given Mrs D the 
following four options as to how she would like her overpayments and associated interest to 
be used:
1.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs D 
continues to pay her current monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early,
2.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to pay a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.
the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
4.
the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of her loan term.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs D first 
contacted Creation that means her claim should have been upheld. The fact this did not 
happen has undoubtedly caused her trouble and upset and consequently I’ll make an award 
of £100 to cover this.
Ref: DRN7446337
4
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs D’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

allow Mrs D to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs D from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mrs D’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date of the overpayment 
to the date of settlement,

allow Mrs D to decide how she’d like her overpayments and associated interest to be 
used, using the four options described above, and;

pay Mrs D £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mrs D a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs. 
Ref: DRN7446337
