K821x#12
complaint
Mrs V complains that she was mis-sold two single premium policies which provided life, 
hospitalisation and personal accident cover by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
Mrs V was sold the first policy when taking out a loan from Creation in 2007. The term of the 
loan and the policy were both five years. The premium for the policy was added to Mrs V’s 
loan.
Mrs V was sold the second policy a year later, in 2008, when she took out a new loan to 
repay the 2007 loan and increase her borrowing. The term of the new loan was seven years 
while the term of the new policy was five years. Again, the premium for the policy was added 
to Mrs V’s loan.
background
The last adjudicator who considered this case concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld because Creation didn’t do enough to make clear to Mrs V the costs of both policies, 
the optional nature of the 2007 policy and the restrictive cancellation terms of the 
2008 policy. Creation does not agree with the adjudicator’s view and so the matter has been 
referred to me for a decision.
my findings
I have provided only a brief summary of the complaint above but, in reaching my decision, 
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I have also taken account of any relevant 
regulatory rules, the law and good industry practice at the time the policies were sold. 
Although the policies Mrs V took out were not “traditional” payment protection insurance 
(“PPI”) policies, which usually involve the provision of accident, sickness and/or 
unemployment cover, I think the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same 
as those set out in our well-established general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI, which is published on our website. The key questions I need to consider therefore are:

whether, in giving any advice, Creation took adequate steps to ensure that the products 
it recommended were suitable for Mrs V’s needs; and 

whether Creation gave Mrs V information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order 
to put her in a position where she could make an informed choice about the insurances 
she was buying.
If Creation did something wrong when selling the policies, I need to consider whether Mrs V 
would have done anything differently – ie not taken them out – if it had not done so.
did Creation recommend the policies to Mrs V?
Mrs V says Creation gave her advice and recommended the policies to her. Creation says it 
did not give advice or make recommendations but gave her information so that she could 
decide for herself whether or not the policies were suitable.
Ref: DRN7168603
2
The sale of both policies took place over the telephone. Creation has been unable to provide 
us with recordings of the sales calls. It has, however, given us copies of the telephone sales 
scripts which it says would have been followed for each of the sales. Although I don’t know 
the extent to which they were followed for Mrs V’s sales, I think they give me a broad 
indication of the likely structure and content of the calls. There is nothing in the scripts that 
makes me think Mrs V was given a specific recommendation in either case. 
Also, the documentation I have seen which Creation says Mrs V would have been sent in the 
post after the sales also indicates that they were non-advised.
So, on balance, I am persuaded Creation did not advise Mrs V to take out the policies. 
Therefore, it did not have to assess their suitability for Mrs V’s needs. However, it did have to 
provide her with information about the cover that was clear, fair and not misleading so that 
she could make a proper and fully informed decision about whether to take them out.
I am not satisfied that Creation did so in this case and it is on this point that I intend to focus.
were Mrs V’s information needs about the cost of the policies made clear?
I am not satisfied that Creation clearly presented the cost of either of the policies to Mrs V. 
These are significant failings for reasons I’ll explain in more detail below.
As I have already said, both sales took place over the telephone and, although there are no 
call recordings, Creation has given us the call scripts it says would have been used. I have 
looked at these carefully. 
For the 2007 policy, all the sales script says is: “If you are passed for the credit amount that 
you have applied for, the monthly repayment amounts will be; (INCLUDED QUOTE WITH 
PAYMENT PROTECTION AND WITHOUT)”. 
There is nothing in the script to suggest Mrs V would have been told how much the policy 
premium was going to cost her (this was over £1400). There is also nothing in it to suggest 
Mrs V would have been told what the interest on that premium would be if the loan and the 
policy ran its full term (this was over £360) or what the total cost of the product would be (this 
was nearly £1800, out of a total borrowing of just over £11,000). And to work out the monthly 
cost of the insurance (which I understand was almost £30), she would have had to do some 
mental arithmetic by deducting the quote for the monthly repayment with the insurance 
which it seems she would have been given from the quote for the monthly repayment without 
it. And she would have had to do this while Creation’s representative was also talking to her 
on the telephone. This is not something that it is reasonable to expect a consumer to do, 
especially when the main reason for their call is to arrange a personal loan, rather than to 
take out an insurance product.
For the 2008 policy, all the script says is: “The monthly repayment amounts would be 
[include quotes with payment protection and without payment protection and also advise 
the customer of total cost of the payment protection policy]”. 
It does appear in this instance that Mrs V would have been give information on the total cost 
of the policy. But, again, there is nothing to suggest that the cost of the policy premium 
(more than £3200), the interest on that premium (almost £1200) and the monthly cost of the 
policy (which I understand was over £50) were made clear to her.
Ref: DRN7168603
3
It was Creation’s responsibility in both of these sales to draw Mrs V’s attention to the most 
important information about the policy that was likely to affect her decision-making. And one 
of the most important considerations for any consumer – and I have no reason to believe it 
would be any different for Mrs V – is to understand the cost of the insurance they are buying. 
This is especially so when the policy being sold is a single premium policy. 
Single premium policies are paid for in a very different way to most other insurance policies. 
In particular, their cost structure is different. The cost of the premium is added to the 
underlying loan which attracts interest. And the initial premium cost is often significantly 
increased by that interest, as it is added to it over the term of the loan. In Mrs V’s case, 
interest increased her 2007 and 2008 policy costs by about 25% and about 37%, 
respectively.
None of this is a straightforward way to fund insurance and it is not something that Mrs V is 
likely to have had much understanding of. Nor was she in a position where she was likely to 
appreciate that single premium policies can often be an expensive way of paying to cover, 
especially when compared to the more familiar and perhaps easier to understand regular 
premium policies.
It is in the light of these considerations that, in Mrs V’s case, I believe the failure to disclose 
clearly key information about the cost of the policies when she took them out over the 
telephone was such a significant one.
Following the telephone conversations in which the policies were sold, Mrs V was sent a 
number of documents, including a credit agreement, which she was to sign and return to 
Creation, and a policy summary. 
The credit agreement for each policy includes details of the amount of the premium and the 
total cost of the policy. However, neither sets out separately the amount of the interest 
payable on the premium over the life of the loan. Nor do they state the monthly cost of the 
policy, which is something we might reasonably expect to see in a policy of this type. So, in 
the main financial documents, which Mrs V might reasonably expect to contain the important 
information she needed to know about her loans and her insurance, key pieces of financial 
information about the insurances were not included.
The policy summary for each policy includes a “Statement of Price”, which sets out the cost 
of the premium, the interest payable on it and the total cost of the insurance (though not the 
monthly cost). But it sets these details out at the very back of a document that Mrs V did not 
have to sign and to which she might therefore not have attached great significance when 
reviewing the documentation that was sent to her.
So, I do not think the documents Mrs V was sent after the sales took place provided 
adequate disclosure of all of the important information she should have had about what the 
insurance was going to cost her. When considering the information in these documents, I’ve 
also taken into account that Mrs V agreed to buy these policies over the telephone, even 
though she didn’t sign to accept the insurance until she got the credit agreements. So I don’t 
think she would have attached as much to them as to any information that was given to her 
during the sales calls. And, in accordance with general standards of good industry practice, 
documentation supplied after a sale has taken place – even if it is adequate (which, in this 
case, I don’t think it was) – is unlikely to correct failings in the actual sales process.
Ref: DRN7168603
4
did the failing to provide costs information result in a difference to Mrs V’s decisions?
Establishing clear (and significant) failings or flaws is not sufficient for me to uphold Mrs V’s 
complaint. I must also consider whether these failings would have made a difference to her 
decisions to purchase the policies.
I have no reason to believe that the cost of the cover Mrs V was purchasing wouldn’t have 
been important to her. I am persuaded that had she been told in a clear and fair way that:

in the case of the 2007 policy, for life, hospitalisation and personal accident cover, she 
would be paying a total of nearly £1,800, at a rate of nearly £30 per month for five years 
on a total borrowing of around £11,000; and

in the case of the 2008 policy for the same type of cover, she would be paying a total of 
nearly £4,500 at a rate of over £50 per month for seven years (even though the policy 
only ran for five years) on a total borrowing of around £25,000,
she would not have taken them out.
It follows from this that I do not think Creation met Mrs V’s information needs. And I think that 
with better and clearer information about the cost of the policies, Mrs V is likely to have 
declined them. For these reasons, I uphold her complaint.
other information failings
I have upheld Mrs V’s complaint primarily because of Creation’s failure to adequately 
disclose the cost of the policies to her. But I will add that I also have concerns that Creation 
failed to disclose other important information about the policies as follows:

In relation to the sale of the 2007 policy, and having looked carefully at the call script 
Creation says would have been followed, I have not seen anything to suggest that Mrs V 
was informed that the policy was optional. Nor have I seen anything in the script to 
suggest that Creation requested her consent to taking out the policy. So my concern is 
that Mrs V was not given an opportunity to exercise a choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take out the policy.

In relation to the sale of the 2008 policy, and, again, having looked carefully at the script 
Creation says would have been followed, I have not seen anything to suggest that Mrs V 
was informed of the potential financial impact the policy’s restrictive cancellation terms 
might have had on her. The policy did not offer a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early. 
This means that Mrs V would not have received a refund of premiums that matched the 
time left to run on the policy if she cancelled it.
Mrs V was using her 2008 loan in part to refinance the 2007 one, so there is a strong 
chance that she might have wanted the flexibility to consolidate her debts and refinance 
again at some point in the future. A restriction such as the one contained in the 
2008 policy, which is likely to have made Mrs V’s ability to re-finance the loan less easy 
or more costly, may have impacted on her decision to buy it.

Also in relation to the 2008 loan, I have not seen anything in the script to suggest Mrs V 
would have been made aware that, while her new loan was due to run for seven years, 
the policy only ran for five years. So Mrs V would have needed to incur further costs to 
Ref: DRN7168603
5
maintain similar cover for the full duration of the loan (while still paying for the policy 
under the 2008 loan arrangements). And any claim on the 2008 policy could have found 
her excluded under any subsequent policy taken out. Had Mrs V been informed of this, 
again, it might have impacted on her decision to take out the policy.
successive sales
Before I turn to appropriate compensation, it is worthwhile briefly setting out that the 
2008 policy sale was a ‘successive sale’. So, it seems that, when Mrs V increased her 
borrowing in 2008, instead of setting up a new loan running alongside the earlier loan, 
Creation set up one new loan, incorporating and settling the 2007 loan. 
I understand this meant that the five year policy purchased with the 2007 loan was 
cancelled, with Creation selling a new policy in 2008. Appropriate compensation will require 
consideration of the fact that the 2008 lending may have incorporated the residual cost of the 
2007 policy.
fair compensation
I think that, if Mrs V hadn’t bought the policies, she would still have gone ahead with the 
loans. Therefore, she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the 
policies hadn’t been sold. The 2008 policy had a five year term, so I presume it has run its 
course but that the 2008 loan is still running. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(A)
In respect of each loan:

recalculate the loan and the payments to what they would have been if Mrs V had 
taken the loan without the insurance policies; 

repay to Mrs V the amounts by which the payments actually made exceeded the 
recalculated payments;

pay Mrs V interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid;

recalculate the balance that would have been outstanding at the end of each loan 
had the recalculated loan not included the insurance policies.
(B) 
Calculate how much of the balance that was carried forward to the subsequent loan 
related to the cost of the insurance policy taken out for the previous loan; and

repay to Mrs V all amounts paid under each subsequent loan in respect of the carried 
forward balance, including interest and charges;

pay Mrs V interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple† from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid.
(C)
If the most recent loan includes the cost of the most recent insurance policy and/or any 
balance carried forward from the cost of the previous insurance policy, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should restructure the loan so that the balance is 
reduced to the level that it would have been if it had not included any of the costs of the 
mis-sold insurance policies.
(D)
Set out in writing for Mrs V details of the calculations under (A), (B) and (C). 
 
If Mrs V wants to use any money she receives to reduce the remaining loan, 
Ref: DRN7168603
6
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should allow this. But it cannot require Mrs V to reduce the 
loan to less than it would be now had Mrs V not bought the insurance policies.
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs V needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Mrs V should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs V’s complaint and require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs V fair compensation in accordance with the 
calculation I have set out above.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7168603
