K820x#14
complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has charged him interest on his loan to 
buy a carpet.
background
In June 2013 Mr S bought a carpet and signed a buy now pay later agreement with Creation. 
The terms were that he would pay no interest if he paid the total sum due by 5 June 2014. 
He paid the money on 16 June and so became liable for an interest charge.
He complained to Creation in June 2014 and it issued several letters to him including a final 
response letter which explained that he had six months to bring his complaint to this service. 
He contacted us in April 2016. Creation objected to us considering his complaint as it was 
time barred. The adjudicator explained this to Mr S and said she couldn’t address his 
complaint about interest being charged.
She did, however, consider his complaint about Creation pursuing him for the outstanding 
debt. She noted that Mr S hadn’t yet paid the interest element which was due under the 
terms and conditions. He said that he hadn’t realised he was signing a credit agreement and 
the salesman had hidden the document from him. He thought it was a delivery receipt. The 
adjudicator concluded the interest was due and that Creation was entitled to pursue Mr S for 
the debt.
Mr S didn’t agree and reiterated that he hadn’t been aware that he had signed the 
agreement and that it was immoral to charge £406.47 interest when he was only a few days 
late in paying. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We do not have a free hand to consider every complaint that is referred to us. The powers 
given to us by Parliament are such that we cannot act outside our rules. One of those rules 
says that, unless the financial business agrees, we do not have the statutory power to 
consider a complaint if it is referred to us more than six months after a ‘final response’ letter 
is issued. Creation issued its ‘final response’ letter on 23 June 2014, but the complaint was 
not referred to us until April 2016, and Creation has since objected to our considering the 
matter
I am, however, permitted to consider complaints made outside of the usual time limits where 
I am satisfied that the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances. I have therefore considered whether there are exceptional circumstances 
which mean the usual time limits do not apply to this complaint. I am not aware of any 
exceptional circumstances that would allow me to extend the normal tine limits.
The only remaining issue is Mr S’s complaint that Creation is chasing him for the debt. It has 
been established that he owes the money and it is reasonable for Creation to ask Mr S to 
pay. If he is experiencing financial difficulties and cannot make the payments to Creation I 
would suggest he contacts it to discuss this as when made aware of financial difficulties it is 
required to respond positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN7566908
2
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2016.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566908
