K821x#14
complaint
Mrs Q says that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to her. 
background
In 2008 Mrs Q bought a freezer in a shop and she took out a £313.17 loan to pay for it. At 
the same time Creation sold her a PPI policy. The policy cost £152.26, which was added to 
the loan.  
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mrs Q wouldn’t pay interest if she paid 
off the credit before that date. Otherwise she’d pay interest (including £187.14 of interest on 
the policy) over the remaining 48 months of the loan.   
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Q’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mrs Q would have bought the policy if 
it had done so.  
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mrs Q was given would 
have made her aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs Q’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mrs Q how much the policy cost. I say this because:  
•
The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mrs Q bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs Q to 
work out the interest herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.  
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs Q would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a shop and her 
attention was on buying a freezer – not on buying insurance. 
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mrs Q to understand what the policy was 
costing her.  
•
The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mrs Q aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 32.4%. This meant Mrs Q would pay a substantial extra amount 
Ref: DRN7015030
2
of interest on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was 
‘free’ life cover.    
•
The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mrs Q was borrowing. This was unusual and I 
think Mrs Q would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to 
buy the policy. Especially as she was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly 
short term. 
 
•
I don’t think Mrs Q would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware 
of how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs Q’s complaint.
fair compensation 
Mrs Q borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Mrs Q needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid. 
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mrs Q the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs Q paid each month from when she paid 
it until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on†.

If Mrs Q made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs Q a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that Mrs Q’s complaint is upheld. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mrs Q compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2015.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7015030
