K820x#13
complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited will not refund to her the money 
that she paid for an alarm system. Her complaint is made against Creation Consumer 
Finance under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She is being helped with her 
complaint by her husband and a representative.
background
An alarm system was supplied to Mrs P in 2009 which she financed using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance. In 2014 her representative complained - on her 
behalf - to Creation Consumer Finance under section 75 that the alarm system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs P. Mrs P was not satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
that the original order invoice shows that the credit agreement was for ‘Alarm System only’ 
and she was not satisfied that there was sufficient evidence to say the purchase was 
misrepresented to Mrs P.
Mrs P’s representative has asked, on her behalf, for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. The representative says, in summary, that the only reason that Mrs P 
proceeded with the purchase was the monitoring, maintenance and response service and 
that she would never have signed any finance agreement stating "Alarm System only" if they 
were aware that no monitoring, maintenance and response service would be provided. The 
representative has also provided documents in support of Mrs P’s complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there has been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mrs P’s complaint about Creation 
Consumer Finance under section 75, I must be satisfied that there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the alarm system.
Mrs P clearly feels very strongly that she has paid for both the alarm and a monitoring 
service and she has provided a number of documents to support her complaint. However, 
she paid for the service using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance. 
The pre-contract information that was provided by Creation Consumer Finance says that the 
credit was being provided for an “alarm system only – no monitoring” and the credit 
agreement that was signed by Mrs P in February 2009 says that the credit was being 
provided for “intruder alarm and installation only”. Immediately above Mrs P’s signature on 
the credit agreement are the words: “This is a Credit Agreement regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms”.
Although Mrs P may have understood that she was purchasing an alarm and monitoring 
system, I consider that it is clear from the credit agreement that Creation Consumer Finance 
was only providing credit for the alarm system and not the monitoring. I am therefore not 
persuaded that there is enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance is liable 
Ref: DRN8360785
2
to Mrs P under section 75 for any breach of contract or misrepresentation about the 
monitoring service. I therefore do not consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs P the money 
that she had paid for the alarm or to pay her any other compensation.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I do not uphold Mrs P’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2015.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360785
