K821x#15
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background
I issued a provisional decision in April 2020, concluding that Mr D’s complaint should be 
upheld. I also set out what Creation should do to put things right. I attach a redacted version 
of my provisional decision which forms part of this final decision.
I invited further comments from both parties before I reconsidered the complaint for a final 
time. Both Mr D and Creation accepted my provisional decision findings.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr D’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

arrange for the system to be removed from Mr D’s property and make good any 
damage caused at no additional cost to him,

refund the payments Mr D has made towards the system, including any deposit, less 
any benefits he has received. Creation should use Mr D’s FIT statements and 
electricity bills to do this, including a self-consumption rate of 37%,

add 8% simple interest* to the above from the date the payments were made to the 
date of the settlement, and;

pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN8956648
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax form HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN8956648
3
Provisional decision
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (“CCA”) 1974.
Background
Mr D was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as “E”, that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a meeting at his home, Mr D agreed to enter into a contract with E for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system costing £10,800. To fund this, he also agreed to enter into a 10 year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr D made a claim under section 75 (“s75”) of the CCA. He said that E had told him that the solar 
panel system would be “self-funded” and that the benefits he’d receive from the system by way of 
feed-in-tariff (“FIT”) income and savings on his electricity bills would more than off-set the monthly 
loan repayments. But this hadn’t happened. Instead, his monthly loan repayments had been much 
higher than any income or benefit he’d received. Mr D also raised some concerns about the quality of 
the installation and that he hadn’t been receiving any FIT payments since 2018.
In response, Creation offered to arrange for an independent expert to visit Mr D’s home and look at 
the quality of the installation. Mr D declined this and referred his complaint to this service.
During the course of our investigation Mr D agreed to Creation arranging for a company to inspect his 
solar panel system. Its report said ‘this installation is of an extremely poor quality throughout.’ It also 
provided a quote for the repair work it had identified. Creation offered to arrange and pay for the 
repair work. In addition to this it also offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mr D 
over the term of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that he would pay no more than 
this over the 10 year term.
Our investigator thought the offer put forward by Creation was fair. 
Mr D disagreed. He said he wanted the panels to be removed from his home and for all the payments 
he’d made to be returned to him.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached the complaint has been passed to me for review.
 
My provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
I’m required to determine this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes s75 of the CCA, which provides protection for consumers for 
goods or services bought using credit. It states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in respect of a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the 
supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.”
Ref: DRN8956648
4
As Mr D paid for the solar panel system through a fixed sum loan agreement, Creation agrees that 
s75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr D could claim against Creation – the creditor – for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have claimed 
against the supplier. So, I have taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
The offer put forward by Creation is to arrange and pay for the repair work that is needed to bring the 
quality of Mr D’s solar panel installation to the required standard. It has also it will put Mr D in a 
position where his solar panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan. By doing this 
Creation has accepted that the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to Mr D and 
that there was a breach of contract due to the quality of the installation of the system. As a result, this 
decision will deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
Creation’s offer
I need to decide whether the offer put forward by Creation is fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint. I understand that in similar complaints our service  has accepted that 
the proposal put forward by Creation, as outlined above, to be fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of those complaints.
The original contract to supply and install Mr D’s solar panel system was covered by the Supply of 
Goods and Services Act (‘SGSA’) 1982. The SGSA sets out that the goods must be of a satisfactory 
quality and services must be carried out with reasonable skill and care.
And within the contract that Mr D had with E for it to supply and install the solar panel system to his 
home, there is an implied term that the trader, in this case E, would carry out the services, i.e. the 
installation, will reasonable skill and care.
I’ve reviewed the report that was completed on Mr D’s solar panel system. The report says:
“On Inspection, this installation is of an extremely poor quality throughout. The panels are not secured 
correctly on the roof  and as a result of this, the limpets are all loose and are close to being blown of 
the roofs. The panels on the front roof have now sagged and are not straight due to the loose fittings 
on the panels. There is a hole on the roof where the roof hook has split a roof tile under the bracker, 
water can easily find its way in from this area on the front roof. The Dc cable and MC4 connectors are 
not tied to the rail and are lying on the roof with water ingress. This has caused a reduction with the 
systems performance. In the loft space the DC cable is unclipped in areas and the Isolators are not 
securely installed atall in the loft. The original installers have used less than half the amount of 
required brackets. The AC cable run is in twin and earth, when it MUST be armoured for any external 
runs and it is also not securely installed and is tied to a loose pipe, which is dangerous practice. 
Finally there are no warning labels or a shutdown procedure installed at the property, which could 
cause a serious incident to another electrician working on the customers electrics as they wouldnt 
know solar was installed internally. The Inverter is also damaged but not from workmanship, simply 
age.”
I’ve also noted in the report there is a section that says “DETAIL ANY IMMEDIATE HEALTH & 
SAFETY ISSUES”. This then says “Several issues as stated above.”
The report outlined above highlights a number of issues with the installation of Mr D’s solar panel 
system. So, like Creation, I’m not satisfied that the installation of Mr D’s solar panel system was 
carried out with reasonable skill and care. Therefore, I consider this to be a breach of contract.  
The report covers a number of key issues with the installation. These include the solar panels being 
so poorly installed that they are close to ‘being blown off the roof’ and that there is further damage to 
Mr D’s roof which is likely to lead to water ingress. It goes on to say that the performance of the solar 
panel system has been reduced and therefore any benefits that Mr D has received are less than he 
Ref: DRN8956648
5
should have reasonably expected. This is supported by Mr D’s statement that he hasn’t been 
receiving FIT payments since 2018. 
I’ve also gone on to consider that the report highlights there are ‘several’ immediate health and safety 
issues that need to be resolved. I’m of the view that this means that Mr D’s solar panel system is, and 
has been since installation, unsafe and poses an immediate risk to his and others health and safety. 
Again, this demonstrates that the installation wasn’t carried out with reasonable skill and care. In my 
view, this is a significant breach of the contract Mr D had with E.
Whilst I understand that Creation believes that its offer is fair and reasonable, and in similar 
complaints this service has agreed with it, my role is to reach a fair and reasonable outcome taking 
account of the particular circumstances of this complaint. Overall, the report highlights a number of 
major, and what I consider to be key issues, with the solar panel systems installation. These issues 
have placed Mr D, his family and any contractors carrying out work in his home in harms way and I’ve 
taken this into account when considering what is fair and reasonable.
The report mentions that the inverter for the solar panel system is no longer working and needs to be 
replaced. This explains why Mr D hasn’t been receiving FIT payments from his energy provider. I’ve 
noted that this says this is due to age rather than the quality of the installation. 
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar 
panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing ‘sometime’ during 
the lifetime of the panels at a cost of around £800. 
Mr D’s solar panel system has a 20 year lifetime and was installed in 2015. From the evidence 
discussed above, it appears that his inverter needed replacing shortly after three years of installation. 
I accept that it isn’t unusual for an inverter to need replacing, as set out by the Energy Savings Trust. 
Although I am surprised that it has stopped working just over three years after installation.
I’ve also considered the methodology that Creation has submitted to this service to calculate the total 
benefits of the solar panel system. This methodology is based on the actual and estimated future 
performance of Mr D’s solar panel system.
The methodology Creation follows is to calculate the first year’s benefits based on Mr D’s FIT 
statements and electricity bills. To calculate the remaining benefits, it uses a number of assumptions 
including, but not limited to, a self-consumption rate of 37%, electricity price inflation, the degradation 
rate and the estimated retail price index. I’m of the view that these appear reasonable taking into 
account the actual known figures. For example, the actual average retail price index for the last four 
years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. 
Usually, I’d consider that the assumptions being used by Creation provide a fair and reasonable basis 
for calculating fair compensation. However, in Mr D’s complaint, I’m not satisfied that they do. Mr D 
hasn’t been in receipt of FIT payments since 2018 so I don’t consider it fair for Creation to use only 
the first year’s FIT statements and electricity bills to calculate the estimated future performance of the 
solar panel system as it isn’t a true reflection of his solar panel systems performance.
Taking account of what I have discussed above in regards to the quality of the installation and 
Creation’s offer to make good the installation and the solar panel system self-funding, I’m not satisfied 
that this provides a fair and reasonable outcome in the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
Fair compensation
Creation doesn’t dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented to Mr D and 
that the poor quality of the installation was a breach of contract as the system installation didn’t take 
place with reasonable skill and care. So, in assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider my 
aim should be to put Mr D in a position he would’ve been in but for the misrepresentation and breach 
of contract by E.
Ref: DRN8956648
6
On that basis, taking account of the evidence I have discussed above, I’m minded to ask Creation to 
refund any payments made towards the solar panel system, together with 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of the payment to the date of the settlement. I’ll allow Creation to take account of 
the benefits that Mr D has received from the system when calculating fair compensation. To do this it 
should use Mr D’s FIT statements and electricity bills. For ease I consider it fair to use a self-
consumption rate of 37% to calculate electricity savings.
I also think that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first contacted Creation 
which means his claim should’ve been upheld. Consequently, I’ll make an award of £300 to recognise 
this.
  
My provisional decision
Subject to any further submissions I should receive from either party by 23 May 2020, my provisional 
decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement of it, I’m minded to require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

arrange for the system to be removed from Mr D’s property and make good any damage 
caused at no additional cost to him,

refund the payments Mr D has made towards the system, including any deposit, less any 
benefits he has received. Creation should use Mr D’s FIT statements and electricity bills to do 
this, including a self-consumption rate of 37%,

add 8% simple interest* to the above from the date the payments were made to the date of 
the settlement, and;

pay Mr D £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8956648
