K821x#12
complaint
Miss D complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sold her in 2007 over the telephone. 
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They didn’t think Creation had made Miss D aware 
she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And they didn’t think it made the policy  
cost clear.
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Miss D a choice whether to buy the policy. And that the 
overall cost of the policy was clear enough.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints. 
Miss D has said she was not told the insurance was optional and that she thought it was 
essential. Creation hasn’t been able to provide a recording of the sales call. But it has 
provided a script it says would have been followed. I’m not satisfied that Creation made Miss 
D aware the policy was optional – and that she could choose to buy it, or not – because: 

The script is short. It didn’t require the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was 
optional, or get Miss D’s explicit consent to add it to her loan. 

The script told the call handler to ‘include quotes with payment protection and without’. 
But it didn’t say what form those quotes should take, how they should be delivered, or 
what prominence should be given to the ‘without’ quote. So this part of the script seems 
to have been open to interpretation by each call handler and I can’t be sure Miss D was 
given an option to accept or decline the insurance. 

I don’t think the brief mention of cancellation rights in the script was enough to make 
Miss D aware she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And I also don’t think it 
would have given her the confidence to cancel the policy where she hadn’t first been told 
it was optional. 

Although the credit agreement does allow for Miss D to select the insurance, the policy is 
not described as optional. And this would have been sent out after the initial phone call, 
when the insurance was sold to her. 

Creation effectively sold the policy to Miss D over the phone. I think Miss D would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on anything she received in writing 
afterwards. So Creation should have made the optional nature of the policy clear to Miss 
D during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.   
Ref: DRN8217740
2
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Miss D that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental 
failing on Creation’s part and I uphold Miss D’s complaint for this reason. 
Given the above, I don’t need to go on to look at any further aspects of the way the policy 
was sold. However, for clarity, I will add that I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also 
didn’t properly disclose the cost of the policy to Miss D at the point of sale. 
For these reasons, I uphold Miss D’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Miss D should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. 
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Miss D because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Miss D had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Miss D actually paid, and paying her the difference; 
and

paying Miss D simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Miss D setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Miss D needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Miss D should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. Miss D 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Miss D’s complaint. Creation Financial Services Limited must pay her the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Paul Bishop
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8217740
