K821x#15
complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
background
Mr F was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems. I’ll refer 
to it as ‘R’. Following a meeting, Mr F agreed to enter into a contract with R for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system costing about £10,000. To fund this Mr F also agreed to 
enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Mr F made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. He said that R had told him that the 
solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more 
than off-set by any benefit he’d receive by way of feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and savings by 
using the electricity generated by the solar panels rather than buying it from his energy 
provider. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much 
higher than any benefits.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr F. Unhappy with the response; Mr F referred his complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented to Mr F. He recommended that Creation calculate 
the potential savings and income to Mr F over the term of the loan and then restructure the 
loan so that Mr F didn’t pay any more than this over the 10-year term of the loan. As this 
may have meant that Mr F had overpaid on his loan the investigator recommended Mr F to 
be given the following choice on how he’d like any overpayment to be used:
1.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr F 
continues to pay his existing monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early,
2.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr F 
pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
3.
the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he continues to pay his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he pays a new, lower monthly payment 
until the end of the loan term.
Our investigator also recommended that Creation pay Mr F £100 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused.
Creation accepted the investigators view of the complaint. Mr F also accepted but raised that 
he had to pay for some repair work to be carried out to the system and paid for an additional 
monitoring and warranty. He wanted Creation to consider reimbursing this.
Our investigator passed this information to Creation. Creation said the repair work was due 
to water damage and therefore not covered under warranty supplied by R and that the 
additional warranty and monitoring he’d paid for was a separate transaction and therefore 
not covered under s75.
Ref: DRN8938256
2
As an agreement couldn’t be reached the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F says that he was cold-called and during a sales meeting told that the solar panels 
would be entirely self-financing. Having carefully considered the available evidence, like the 
investigator, I think that R did misrepresent the benefits of the solar panel system. Creation 
has accepted the investigator’s view and as a result this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
I’ve considered whether it would be appropriate to put Mr F back into the position he would 
have been in if there had been no misrepresentation. However, here, I don’t think it would be 
fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. Rather, I think 
the fair outcome here is to put Mr F in a position where the panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan. By allowing Mr F to keep the panels, I’m satisfied that he will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the 
loan has finished).
I’ve carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to calculate 
the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology is based on the actual performance 
and estimated future performance of Mr F’s solar panel system.
I’ve considered the assumptions used by Creation, including the self-consumption rate, 
electricity price inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index. I’m of the 
view that these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an 
example, the actual average retail price index for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far 
from the assumed figure. In summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been 
used by Creation provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
I turn now to the repair costs and additional monitoring and warranty Mr F has taken out. The 
generation meter had to be replaced in December 2016 at a cost of around £320. At the time 
it was replaced by R, it said the meter had been damaged by water dripping from the central 
heating boiler. And because of this it wasn’t covered under the warranty.
I’ve carefully considered the warranty that R supplied Mr F. This is a five year workmanship 
warranty. This means that if there is a fault with Mr F’s solar panel system found during the 
first five years of installation due to poor workmanship it would be covered. There is very 
limited information on what happened when the generation meter was replaced. Mr F has 
provided his testimony that he was told it had suffered water damage but when he asked to 
see the damage, he was told the meter couldn’t be found amongst all the other items in R’s 
van. 
I have no doubt to disbelieve what Mr F has said and find his testimony both plausible and 
persuasive. Having said that, without any contradictory evidence to show that the issue was 
Ref: DRN8938256
3
caused by poor workmanship I’m unable to say it would be fair for Creation to cover the cost 
of it.
R contacted Mr F in November 2018 to let him know that a new company, I’ll refer to them 
as ‘E’, would be honouring any parts that may need replacing under the original term of the 
warranty. E contacted Mr F as it believed there was a fault with his system. When E 
attended Mr F’s home it found the Envoy R that had been originally installed wasn’t working. 
My understanding is that the Envoy R sends information electronically to a central monitoring 
system on the performance of Mr F’s solar panel system.
As the Envoy R was no longer available, E replaced it with an Envoy S and alongside this 
sold Mr F a five year warranty and 10 year monitoring deal. Again, I haven’t seen anything to 
explain why the Envoy R originally installed stopped working. The warranty that Mr F had 
through R, in addition to the workmanship warranty, included a two year manufacturer’s 
warranty. 
Mr F’s solar panel system was installed in February 2015. This means that if the Envoy R 
had stopped working before February 2017 it would’ve been covered under the 
manufacturer’s warranty and there shouldn’t have been any cost to Mr F. It’s not clear when 
the Envoy R stopped working or why, so I can’t conclude that this should have been 
replaced under the warranty. 
When the Envoy R was replaced Mr F also signed up to a 10 year monitoring service and a 
five year warranty. I’ve considered whether s75 applies to this transaction to decide if 
Creation could be held liable for this additional cost.
S75 of the CCA provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
S75 states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.”
This means that for Mr F to be able to make a claim against Creation, it would’ve had to 
have financed the new contract Mr F entered with E. But Creation didn’t. Therefore, as there 
is no debtor-creditor-supplier link with Creation, I find it isn’t responsible for refunding Mr F 
the additional money he paid for the monitoring service and new warranty.
Summary 
In summary, I’m satisfied that the benefits of the panels were misrepresented to Mr F. To put 
things right Creation should calculate the potential income and savings to Mr F over the 
10 year term of the loan and restructure the loan to ensure he pays no more than that over 
the original loan term, i.e. make the solar panel system self-funding.
By making the panels self-funding, Mr F’s monthly repayments will likely reduce, meaning 
that he would’ve previously been paying more each month, resulting in an overpayment. And 
as Mr F would’ve been deprived of the monthly overpayment I expect Creation to add 8% 
Ref: DRN8938256
4
simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of the settlement. In a case like 
this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr F have the following selection of options 
as to how he’d like his overpayments to be used:
1.
the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and Mr F continues to pay his existing monthly payment resulting 
in his loan finishing early,
2.
the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and Mr F pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the 
loan term,
3.
the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr F and he continues to 
pay his current monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Mr F and he pays a new, 
lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr F accepts my final decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which of the 
four options he would like Creation to do.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr F first 
contacted Creation that means that his claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did 
not happen undoubtedly caused him trouble and upset and consequently I’ll make an award 
of £100 to cover this.
I’m not persuaded that Creation should refund the additional £320 or the cost of the 10 year 
monitoring service or additional 5 year warranty. 
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr F’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. In 
full and final settlement of it, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

allow Mr F to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mr F from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr F’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,

add 8% simple interest* per annum to any overpayment made from the date of the 
overpayment made to the date of settlement,

allow Mr F to decide how he’d like his overpayments to be used, using the four 
options described above, and;

pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Ref: DRN8938256
5
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its’s taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN8938256
