K822x
complaint
Mr M complains that the car he bought, using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd, was not fit for purpose or of satisfactory quality. The complaint is 
brought on his behalf by a third party.
background 
During the three month warranty period, there were some problems with the car which were 
repaired at no cost to Mr M, under the terms of the warranty. Around a year after purchase, 
the car’s engine failed and it has not been drivable since. Mr M says that since he bought the 
car he has found out the “one previous owner” was a hire car company and that it would 
seem the car had been driven more than 5,000 miles by the dealer before it was sold to him.
The adjudicator did not think there was any discrepancy in the mileage, that there was not 
enough evidence to suggest that the car had been misrepresented as a one owner car and 
that, bearing in mind the mileage the car covered since Mr M bought it, it would appear to 
have been fit for purpose at the point of sale. She thought Creation Consumer Finance 
should have handled Mr M’s complaint better than it did, and that it should pay him 
compensation of £100.
Mr M responded to say, in summary, that:

There is a mileage discrepancy and this indicates the car had more than one owner.

The dealer did not respond to him when the car needed repair, so he had to take it to a 
third party garage and pay the costs himself.

A modern car should last more than 10 years. He paid more than £13,000 for the car 
and a year later it only has scrap value – there must have been something wrong at the 
point of sale.

The car was drivable for a year after sale because of the repairs he carried out at his 
own cost.

The offer of £100 is derisory.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
mileage
When the car was serviced in October 2011, its mileage was recorded as 57,800. When the 
car was sold to Mr M, the sales invoice records the mileage as 58,000. When the MOT was 
carried out, two days later, it records the mileage as 62,544. Mr M says the dealership must 
have owned the car in 2011 when it serviced it and that it has driven it over 5,000 miles, or 
there was a second owner that has not been recorded. I accept this is possible, but I 
consider it more likely than not that the dealer noted the mileage from the last service when 
he completed the sales invoice, rather than checking the car itself. I cannot conclude that the 
mileage discrepancy points to the car having two previous owners and for this reason I do 
not think the car was misrepresented as a one owner car at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN8215643
2
repairs
Mr M says he had to arrange his own repairs – two new tyres and new shock absorbers – 
because the dealer did not respond to his calls. But this was after the warranty period had 
expired and it seems to me that the repairs needed were due to normal wear and tear, rather 
than anything that was present at the point of sale. It is unfortunate that the dealer appears 
to have provided a poor level of service – but I don’t think Creation Consumer Finance is 
obliged to refund him the cost of these repairs.
fit for purpose
I am not unsympathetic to the disappointing position in which Mr M finds himself. But I 
cannot conclude that the car was not fit for purpose when it was sold. The car was driven for 
more than the average mileage in the year since it was sold – which does not suggest to me 
that it was of unsatisfactory quality when it was sold. I accept it needed some repairs during 
that year, but these seem to be due to normal wear and tear of a vehicle of that age and 
mileage, rather than due to any fault at the point of sale.
complaint handling
Creation Consumer Finance did not give the level of service it should have done when Mr M 
complained and, in particular, it took more than six months to send Mr M its final response 
letter – and this was only after our involvement. I think Mr M should be compensated for the 
poor service he received. But, after careful consideration, I agree with the adjudicator that 
£100 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2015.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8215643
