K821x#14
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In August 2008 Mr T took out a loan to buy a car. He didn’t take out PPI then. But in 
September 2008 he did buy a regular premium PPI policy. It seems he took it out by post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr T’s complaint. Mr T disagreed and so the complaint came 
to me to decide.
In my provisional decision dated 13 November 2014 (a copy of which I’ve attached to this 
final decision), I explained why I intended to uphold Mr T’s complaint.
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Creation nor Mr T has raised anything else for me to think about. So there’s no 
reason for me to change any of the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr T’s complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd and direct it to pay the compensation I’ve set out in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 January 2015.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8105919
2
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In August 2008 Mr T took out a loan to buy a car. He didn’t take out PPI then. But in 
September 2008 he did buy a regular premium PPI policy. It seems he took it out by post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr T’s complaint. Mr T disagreed and so the complaint has 
come to me to decide.
my provisional findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I intend to uphold Mr T’s complaint. 
The policy says Mr T needed to be in paid work of at least 16 hours a week to be eligible for 
the cover. From what I’ve seen, I don’t think he was. 
Mr T has recently told us he was unemployed when he took out the PPI. He’s sent us copies 
of the following documents:

a record showing he was looking for work between the middle of August 2008 and 
the beginning of October 2008. The last entry says Mr T has been offered a self-
employed job

a P45 showing he stopped claiming jobseeker’s allowance by the middle of October 
2008

a certificate of incorporation for a limited company from October 2008. I understand 
Mr T was going to do his self-employed work through this company.
Based on this, I think Mr T was unemployed when he took out the policy and so wasn’t 
eligible for the cover. 
I don’t think Creation recommended the policy to Mr T, so it didn’t need to make sure it was 
suitable for him. But it still needed to give Mr T clear enough information for him to decide if it 
was right for him.
The main document I’ve got from the time of the sale is a copy of a Payment Plus 
Acceptance Form. At the bottom of the form, there’s a direct debit which Mr T has signed 
and dated. 
None of the terms of the policy are set out on the form. There is a statement saying the 
applicant has read and understood a policy summary. Also that the applicant is in full 
Ref: DRN8105919
3
time/self-employment for at least 16 hours a week and isn’t aware of any pending 
unemployment. I don’t know whether Mr T read these statements. I don’t think they’re 
prominent. And there’s no mention of why they’re important. Also, I don’t know whether Mr T 
actually received the policy summary and, if he did, whether he read and understood it. 
So I don’t think Creation made it clear to Mr T that he wouldn’t be eligible for the policy if he 
was unemployed. And I don’t think he would have bought the policy if he’d known he’d never 
be able to benefit from it. 
I think Mr T has lost out because of what Creation did wrong. And so I propose that Creation 
should put things right. 
my proposed fair compensation
I understand the loan and the PPI policy have now run their course. Creation should 
therefore:

pay back to Mr T the full value of the premiums paid for the PPI from the date it started to 
the date it ended 

add interest calculated at 8% simple per year† on the value of each premium from the 
date it was paid to the date compensation is paid 

take into account the value of any successful claim

write to Mr T to set out the details of the calculations and amounts paid to him.
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr T needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr T should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. 
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr T’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay fair 
compensation in line with the calculation I’ve set out above.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8105919
