K821x#15
complaint
Mrs Y complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has unfairly rejected her claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘Act’). Her claim involves some solar 
panels that she thinks were mis-sold to her by the supplier.
background
Mrs Y bought some solar panels from a supplier (“G”) in May 2014. She bought the panels 
for a cost of £6,995 using a point of sale loan provided by Creation. Interest was payable on 
that loan at 9.9% (variable) per year. The total interest payable over the 10 year duration of 
the loan was stated to be £3,856.20 - and the monthly payments were £90.42 - making a 
total payable of £10,851.20.
Mrs Y has said that G’s sales agent told her that the panels would pay for themselves, apart 
from in the winter when there might be a £12 a month shortfall. So she says she was led to 
believe that the electricity generated and the government’s feed in tariff subsidy (‘FIT’) 
should pay off the whole loan and possibly more. So, in effect, the panels would be self-
funding.
The panels are not in fact self-funding and would never have been over the 10 years that the 
loan would be outstanding. There was a shortfall of about £40 a month. Mrs Y made a claim 
against Creation under section 75 of the Act, holding it responsible for G’s 
misrepresentation. She says this induced her into buying the panels, something she says 
that she couldn’t afford and wouldn’t have bought if she thought it was going to cost her what 
has turned out to be over £400 a year.
Creation didn’t agree that the benefits of the panels had been misrepresented. It said that 
the loan agreement was clear as to the amount payable and that there was no evidence that 
G had made the self-funding claims that Mrs Y alleged. It said that at the time of sale Mrs Y 
had been provided with a calculation showing the benefit that the panels would provide and 
that this clearly showed how they would pay for themselves over a 20 year period, not the 10 
years that the loan was for.
Creation have said that Mrs Y signed a form confirming that she had understood her 
personal figures estimate and the finance agreement. Mrs Y says that form was pre-filled for 
her by the sales agent, who’d answered yes to each of the questions on her behalf and that 
she wasn’t shown a personal figures estimate.
Creation have also said that there would have been a follow up call from another of G’s staff 
to confirm that Mrs Y was aware of the finance options available to her and that she wanted 
to go ahead with the purchase and installation. Creation have provided us with a sales script 
for that call, although there is no evidence of the call itself having been made.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Y’s complaint should be upheld. She considered that G 
had more likely than not misrepresented the benefits of the panels to Mrs Y. So, she thought 
Creation were equally responsible with G under Section 75 of the Act for that 
misrepresentation. She recommended that Creation either repay the overpayments that 
Mrs Y had made, on the assumption that the panels would have been self-funding and/or re-
write the loan agreement to make future repayments self-funding.
Ref: DRN8720692
2
Mrs Y accepted the investigator’s recommendation, but Creation didn’t agree. So the matter 
has come to me for a decision
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering Mrs Y’s complaint, I must determine what’s more likely than not to have 
happened when she decided to buy the solar panels. If I find that G misled Mrs Y into 
thinking that the panels would be self-funding, and that she wouldn’t have entered into the 
agreement that she did, but for that misrepresentation, then Creation will be equally liable 
with G under Section 75 of the Act.
Mrs Y tells us she had been considering a roof-rental scheme with a couple of other solar 
panel providers when she was approached by G. So buying these panels on a finance 
arrangement isn’t something that I think Mrs Y was looking to do, regardless of whether or 
not there was a cost to her to purchase them. I consider that she will have been reliant on 
G’s sales agent to fully explain to her the benefit of purchasing the panels and the cost to her 
of installing them.
Mrs Y has told us that the sales agent misled her into thinking that the panels would be self-
funding. The only documentation available to confirm what was discussed is a sales 
confirmation form, a checklist of questions signed by Mrs Y, a post-installation customer 
satisfaction note and the credit agreement. Creation have also provided us with a copy of a 
personal figures projection which it says would have been provided to Mrs Y at the time of 
sale.
I’ve looked carefully through each of these documents. The sales confirmation form doesn’t 
give any indication about the savings to be achieved. And Mrs Y says that she didn’t receive 
the personal figures projection at the time. I can’t be sure whether or not she did receive that 
personal projection from the sales agent. But, even if she had, whilst it was clear that the 
panels were estimated to produce about £680 of income a year, the projection only 
compares the financial returns to the cost of the panels themselves (£6,995) and not the 
finance costs including interest (£10,851.20). So even if she had seen it, I don’t think it would 
have been clear to her that the panels weren’t self-funding.
The personal figures projection indicates that the panels will be paid back over 9 years. That 
may have been true if the panels had been purchased outright and not on finance. Indeed, 
the performance of the panels has been similar to the predictions. But this has still left Mrs Y 
nearly £400 a year short in meeting the finance costs. And that’s because of the interest on 
the loan which wasn’t accounted for in the projection. 
Creation thinks that should have been obvious to Mrs Y, but I don’t think it would have been. 
9 years is called out as the payback period and the form indicates that Mrs Y will have a 
9.7% tax free return in the first year. Given the interest on the loan, that was never going to 
happen. So even if Mrs Y did get a copy of this personal projection, it’s my finding that it was 
misleading.
Mrs Y has told us that she remembers the sales discussion. And that G’s sales agent was 
very clear that there would be no cost to her in the summer - and that in the winter it wouldn’t 
be more than £12 a month shortfall - which would be recouped in the summer months’ 
Ref: DRN8720692
3
generation. Mrs Y has also told us that she explained her financial position to the agent at 
the time and that there was no way she would be able to afford these if they weren’t self-
funding.
I have no reason to doubt Mrs Y’s recollection of the events, which are in part backed up by 
the written evidence available, in particular the personal figures projection figures which 
shows the panels paying for themselves over nine years, a shorter period than the ten year 
loan.
I’ve also looked at the checklist of questions that Creation thinks shows Mrs Y confirmed she 
was happy with the terms of the transaction. Mrs Y says that the checklist that she signed on 
the day of the sale was pre-filled by the sales agent. It’s my finding that that is likely, given 
that the answers are all ‘Yes’ in the same handwriting. One of those questions was:
‘At this stage are there any questions that you feel you need clarification on?’ 
That question was answered ‘Yes’ too, rather than being filled in with any additional 
questions that Mrs Y had. And Mrs Y tells us there was nothing else she needed to know at 
the time. So this does say to me that the form was more likely than not to have been filled 
out by someone very quickly and not very carefully. So I don’t think it provides any 
persuasive evidence that Mrs Y had understood everything about the loan agreement and 
the personal projection as Creation alleges.
The post-installation customer satisfaction note is clear on the amount of savings that Mrs Y 
is likely to have made (£680 a year) and it does appear to have been signed by her. But as 
there is no mention of the finance costs on there, it wouldn’t have been apparent to Mrs Y 
that the benefits wouldn’t meet the burden of the finance agreement. It was also provided 
after the sale and the installation. So it would have been of limited value in explaining things 
for Mrs Y when the panels were already up on the roof.
The final document was the credit agreement and whilst that’s clear as to the cost of the 
loan, there is understandably nothing on it that compares the estimated benefit from the 
panels with the monthly payment that will become due. So Mrs Y would have had to 
compare all the documents she received to work out that the panels would not be self-
funding. There was nothing clearly setting out the cost to her for the duration of the loan and 
Mrs Y has told us that she was assured by G’s sales agent that the panels would be self-
funding. So I can appreciate why she wouldn’t have felt the need to look at these closely.
Creation has said that it thinks that there was nothing wrong with G’s sale of the panels and 
that the misrepresentation didn’t happen. It thinks that Mrs Y only came to allege they were 
mis-sold when she got into financial difficulty a couple of years later and could no longer 
afford them. I’ve considered this. Mrs Y’s explanation as to why she didn’t bring a complaint 
any earlier was that she could only put the performance information together after 21 
months. So she didn’t know how much she was saving overall before then.
I can appreciate that it will have taken some time for Mrs Y to be able to work out the extent 
of the benefit that she was achieving from the panels. And it’s not unreasonable for her to 
have needed a couple of years’ figures before she was able to see that the panels weren’t 
effectively paying for themselves. Whilst Mrs Y might have been in financial difficulty at the 
time that she made her complaint, I don’t think that outweighs the evidence indicating that 
Mrs Y was more likely than not told by G’s sales agent that the panels and the loan would be 
self-funding.
Ref: DRN8720692
4
Finally, Creation has provided us with a sales script where G’s agent would have run through 
the cost of the panels and the loan and warned that the interest on the loan would mean that 
there would be more to pay than the panels generated. But there’s no evidence that such a 
call took place or that Mrs Y will have received the warning in the terms scripted. So I 
haven’t found that there’s sufficient evidence to say that she more likely than not was given 
these warnings.
So, it’s my overall finding that Mrs Y was more likely than not misled by G’s sales agent into 
thinking that the panels would be self-funding. Creation is equally liable with G for that 
misrepresentation under the terms of Section 75 of the Act. And I don’t consider that Mrs Y 
would have entered into the purchase and finance agreements on the terms that she did had 
she known it would cost her around £400 a year more than the income/savings from the 
panels.
fair compensation
I’ve considered what would be fair compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having found that there was a misrepresentation, I might have considered putting the parties 
back into the position that they would have been in but for the misrepresentation. So here 
that would mean looking at whether or not Mrs Y would have taken out the panels but for 
that misrepresentation. And if she wouldn’t, then looking to unwind the transaction entirely.
However, I don’t think that would be a fair thing to require of Creation in the circumstances of 
this complaint. Given that the panels are still working and producing electricity, and Mrs Y 
doesn’t appear unhappy with them, other than that they’re not currently paying for 
themselves, I don’t think it would be fair here to require Creation to remove the panels and 
wind back the finance agreement. 
Mrs Y has clearly had some significant benefits from these panels over the years and 
continues to do so. Given that the parties are now over half way through the 10 year 
agreement, I consider a fair and reasonable approach in this case would be to require 
Creation to calculate how much of the loan has been, and will be, self-funded by the 
electricity generated from the panels and the FIT payments. It should then refund to Mrs Y 
what she has effectively overpaid for the loan above that, together with interest at 8% simple 
a year to reflect the time that she hasn’t had the use of that money. It should also restructure 
the loan to ensure that it is self-funding going forward.
How the overpayments are to be used can be structured in a number of ways and I have set 
these out in my award below. Mrs Y should choose which she would prefer when letting us 
know if she accepts my decision. It would be helpful if Creation could please provide Mrs Y 
and this service with the figures for each of the proposed arrangements so that she can 
make an informed decision about which would be best for her.
I also think that Mrs Y will have been upset and inconvenienced by Creation’s failure to 
accept her claim when she made it. For that I think it should pay her £100 compensation.
my final decision
It’s my final decision that I uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited.
Ref: DRN8720692
5
I require that Creation Consumer Finance Limited:
1.
restructures the loan to ensure that it is self-funding from the electricity generated 
and the FIT payments;
2.
does one of the following, when Mrs Y communicates her choice of remedy, in 
relation to the overpayments that she has made. In calculating those overpayments, 
Creation should add interest* at 8% simple a year from the time that Mrs Y made the 
payments to the time that they’re applied to her account or are refunded.
a) use the overpayments to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan so that Mrs Y
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
b) use the overpayments to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan so that Mrs Y 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the original loan term;
c) refund the overpayments to Mrs Y and she continues to make her current
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early; or
d) return the overpayments to Mrs Y and she pays a new monthly payment
until the end of the original loan term; and
3.
 pays Mrs Y £100 for the upset and inconvenience caused to her.
* Her Majesty’s Revenue and customs requires that Creation take off income tax from any 
interest paid. If Mrs Y requests it, Creation should provide her with a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off, so that she can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020. 
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720692
