K820x#14
complaint
Miss H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (trading as Premium First) 
caused her insurance to be cancelled even though she paid her monthly premium finance 
instalment.
background
Miss H took out a loan with Creation to pay the premium for insurance provided by third 
party insurers via brokers. On 1 December 2014 her direct debit payment failed. Creation 
wrote chasing the missed payment. Miss H sent the money by faster payment on 
16 December but her insurance was cancelled. Miss H says that’s unfair and she wants 
Creation to arrange for the insurance to be reinstated and pay compensation.
Creation says it was up to the brokers to decide whether to cancel the insurance. And it had 
informed Miss H a month previously that payments could take five days to reach her account 
and missed payments might result in cancellation. But she failed to make the payment on 
time.
Our adjudicator doesn’t recommend the complaint should be upheld. She’s satisfied Miss H 
made her payment late and she couldn’t find Creation had done anything wrong in the 
circumstances.
Miss H says Creation gave her another ten days to pay in a letter. And she sent the money 
by faster payment on 16 December so it reached Creation the same day – and within the ten 
days. She considers Creation was wrong to tell the brokers that she hadn’t paid, so it’s 
responsible for the cancellation.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have reached the same conclusions as 
our adjudicator for much the same reasons.
I understand Miss H’s frustration about what happened. I consider the crux of her complaint 
is that Creation was wrong to report to the brokers on 18 December that she hadn’t made 
her instalment payment - because she had made it two days earlier.
There’s no dispute that Miss H missed her regular monthly loan repayment on the date it 
was due. But she says Creation gave her a further ten days to make the payment in a letter. 
Creation has provided a template of the standard letter it sent Miss H on 4 December. It says 
“failure to pay…within ten days from the date of this letter may result in your insurance being 
cancelled”. I’m satisfied that letter told Miss H she needed to make her payment by 
14 December.
I can see that Miss H considers it’s unfair for the ten days to start to run from the date of the 
letter. And she says the ten days should begin on the date she received it - giving her until 
the 17th or 18th to make the payment. But even if I were to accept Miss H’s view that she 
had until the 18th to make the payment I’m not persuaded she made it in time.
Miss H sent her payment to Creation by faster payment on 16 December. I accept it’s likely 
to have reached Creation within a few hours the same day. But Miss H didn’t include her 
Ref: DRN8334161
2
agreement number. And I’m satisfied Creation had told her the month before (during phone 
calls on 14th and 20th November) that

only a card payment over the phone guaranteed that a late payment would reach her 
loan account the same day;

payments made by other methods could take three to five days to reach her account 
so her insurance could be cancelled in the meantime; and

any payment should include the agreement number to avoid delay.
I note Creation’s letter chasing payment also reminded Miss H to include her agreement 
number. And I’m satisfied that Miss H should reasonably have been aware, on 
16 December, that her faster payment could take up to 5 days after that to be allocated to 
her account. I note she says she tried to include her loan agreement number with her bank 
payment – unfortunately it didn’t appear. But I can’t fairly hold Creation responsible for that.
I’m satisfied that Miss H’s payment wasn’t in her loan account on 18 December. So I can’t 
fairly find that Creation was wrong to report a missed payment to the brokers on that date.
I have sympathy for the situation Miss H finds herself in but, for the reasons I have 
explained, I am unable to uphold her complaint. I realise Miss H is likely to be disappointed 
by my decision. But she doesn’t have to accept it and she is free to pursue the matter by any 
other means available to her.
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 
5 October 2015.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8334161
