K821x#14
complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2005 Mr L bought some furniture in a shop and he took out a £799 loan to pay for it. At the 
same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £299.71, which was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr L wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise he’d pay interest (including £267.25 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr L’s complaint. Creation disagreed and so the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr L’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr L how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr L bought at the same time. And the credit agreement didn’t show 
the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr L to work out the 
interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of 
the policy to be in the credit agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it wasn’t easy to find and I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his attention 
was on buying furniture – not on buying insurance.

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr L aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay the 
loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest 
at 29.8%. This meant Mr L would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI 
cost in the first year. 

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr L was borrowing. This was unusual and I think Mr 
L would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. 
Especially as he was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly short term. 

I don’t think Mr L would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of how 
much it was going to cost him.
Ref: DRN8964109
2
For these reasons, I uphold Mr L’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr L borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. Mr L needs to get back the extra he’s paid. So, 
Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr L the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr L paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on†.

If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr L’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2015.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8964109
