K821x#12
complaint
Ms V complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd sold to her in 2005 with a fixed-sum loan. The policy 
provided life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Ms V says she didn’t know she 
had the policy; and didn’t need, want or ask for it.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint, because she didn’t think Creation had done enough to 
make Ms V aware of the cost of the policy; in particular the interest charged on it. Creation 
disagreed. It said the documents it gave to Ms V would have made her aware of the interest 
charged. And it said Ms V should have read those documents and questioned anything she 
didn’t understand.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant issues in 
this case are the same as our published approach.
After considering what Creation and Ms V have said and provided I am upholding this 
complaint. I find that Creation failed to properly disclose the cost of the policy to Ms V. And 
I also find that, if she’d been aware of that information, Ms V wouldn’t have bought the 
policy. I say this because:

Ms V was in a shop buying furniture costing around £2,200. Her focus was likely to be 
on picking the furniture she wanted; not on buying insurance to cover any finance she 
was taking out to pay for it. Ms V’s description of the sale also suggests that her 
attention wasn’t drawn to the policy.

This was a single premium PPI policy – where the initial premium (£807.91) was 
significantly increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan (£720.56). 
The interest was high in relation to the premium itself. I think this was an unusual aspect 
of this policy and not something Ms V is likely to have expected.

The credit agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t 
reasonable to expect Ms V to work out this figure herself from the information in the 
credit agreement. That calculation would have been made more difficult for Ms V 
because she would also have had to allow for the effect of a warranty (and interest on 
that warranty) which was included in the figures shown on the agreement.

Creation has provided some evidence that it required retailers selling insurance on its 
behalf to hand customers a policy summary – which featured the statement of price and 
gave the PPI premium and interest cost as separate figures. However, I can’t be sure 
that the statement of price and the importance of the information it contained was 
adequately drawn to Ms V’s attention. The information it contained wasn’t in a prominent 
location, or where Ms V would reasonably expect to find it.
Ref: DRN8018532
2

None of the documents showed the monthly cost of the policy. This information might 
have helped Ms V understand its cost in relation to what she was spending on the 
goods. As a matter of good industry practice this is information I might reasonably 
expect to see for this type of policy.

I think Ms V would have viewed the interest being charged on the PPI as important 
information in her decision about whether to buy the policy. Especially as she was 
borrowing a fairly modest amount over a fairly short term. And also in the context that 
the total cost of the PPI was well over half the base cost of the goods she was buying.

The ‘buy now pay later’ nature of the agreement also meant the whole balance (with the 
PPI premium) was accruing interest at 29.8% for the whole of the 12-month deferred 
period. This meant Ms V would pay a substantial additional amount in interest on the 
single premium PPI in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life 
cover. I’m not satisfied the information in the credit agreement was enough to make 
Ms V properly aware of this; which compounds the cost disclosure failings set out 
above.
Creation says the onus was on Ms V to read the information given and ask for further 
information if she didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to give Ms V enough information about the main features and benefits of the 
policy to enable her to make an informed choice. For the reasons given above I find that 
Creation failed to meet its responsibilities when it sold this policy to Ms V, as it didn’t make 
her properly aware of the cost of the policy. And I don’t think Ms V would have bought the 
policy, if not for Creation’s failing.
fair redress
I find that, if Ms V hadn’t bought the PPI, she would still have gone ahead with the loan. 
So she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the PPI hadn’t been 
sold. The loan and the PPI had a 48-month term (including the deferred period). So both 
should now have ended. However, I understand Ms V fell behind with the loan payments and 
there is still a modest balance outstanding. Ms V is paying this with reduced monthly 
payments. According to the policy terms and conditions, the PPI would have ended when the 
loan was originally supposed to end (2009).
In these circumstances Creation should:
A. Restructure the debt (without charge to Ms V) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed; and

any arrears on the account that are attributable to the PPI (including any interest and 
charges) are removed.
B. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Ms V because PPI was added 
to her loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Ms V had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
Ref: DRN8018532
3

subtracting those amounts from what Ms V actually paid and paying her the 
difference;

paying Ms V interest (simple not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid(†); 
and

taking into account any PPI refunded to Ms V (if the policy was cancelled early) 
and/or the value of any successful claim (if one has previously been made).
C. Write to Ms V to set out what she still owes and how much she will pay and when as a 
result of (A). This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under (B).
If Ms V wants to use any money she receives to reduce the debt, Creation should let her. 
But it can’t make Ms V reduce the debt to less than it would now be if she hadn’t bought the 
policy.
† I understand Creation has to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. 
Whether Ms V needs to take any further action will depend on her financial circumstances. 
The parties can find more information about the tax position on our website. Ms V should 
refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties should 
contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Ms V compensation calculated as set out in the instructions under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8018532
