K821x#14
complaint
Mr F complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold his loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr F took out the PPI policy with a loan when he bought some furniture in December 2005. 
The sale took place in the store, and Mr F said he was advised to take the cover. Creation 
said that it didn’t offer advice to Mr F. He borrowed £2,198 for the furniture, and the PPI cost 
an additional £795.18. This was a single premium PPI policy, so the cost was added to the 
loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. So if Mr F repaid the loan within that 
time he wouldn’t pay interest. After that, the loan was set to be repaid over 36 months, with 
the payments including the PPI premium and a further £709.20 in interest on the premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr F’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr F would have bought the policy if it 
had.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr F was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr F’s complaint. This is because I agree with the adjudicator that 
Creation didn’t properly tell Mr F how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. And it wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr F to work it out 
for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement.

There was a ‘statement of price’ which did set out the interest. But it was on page two of 
the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr F would expect it to be. And I 
can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a store and his 
attention was on buying furniture – not insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr F better understand what the policy was costing him. 

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr F aware of the effect 
the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t repay the 
loan within the first 12 months, the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted interest at 
29.8%. This meant Mr F would pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the PPI cost 
for the first year, when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN8325371
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr F was borrowing. This was unusual and I think Mr 
F would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. 
Especially as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items. 

Overall I don’t think Mr F would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware 
of how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr F’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mr F should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term. So Creation 
should:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr F because PPI was added to 
the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr F had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr F actually paid, and paying him the 
difference; and

paying Mr F simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr F setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr F needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr F should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr F and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr F’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2014.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8325371
