K821x#15
complaint
Mr C complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) amended his 
finance agreement when some items he ordered, and was financing with them, weren’t 
provided.
background
Mr C ordered furniture, in late 2017 and early 2018, from a company I’ll call “H”. He took 
advantage of a 0% APR fixed sum loan from Creation which he used to spread the cost and 
fund the four year deal. The order was comprised of two sofas; a reclining chair; a dining 
table with six chairs and a kitchen table with four chairs.
But H didn’t deliver all of the items. The dining table and chairs weren’t delivered and neither 
were two of the chairs for the kitchen table.
H explained that there were no more dining tables in the country and they couldn’t say when 
a new supply would arrive, other than to explain it would be a minimum of six weeks.
So Mr C sourced a similar item himself and funded it through another deal, with another 
finance company. The deal attracted interest of £95.74. He also sourced some new kitchen 
chairs which he paid for using his debit card.
He was disappointed with the way Creation managed the reduction in his credit agreement 
when they removed the debt for the items that hadn’t been delivered. Creation said they 
couldn’t reduce the value of the instalments but instead they reduced the number of 
instalments. This meant that Mr C’s agreement would be paid off a year earlier. Mr C said 
that wasn’t fair. He wanted them to reduce the size of the instalments instead.
But Creation said that they couldn’t reduce the value of the instalments on a fixed sum loan. 
They didn’t think Mr C had been disadvantaged as there was no interest being paid on the 
debt.
But Mr C disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didn’t think 
Creation had done enough. He understood that the terms of the fixed sum loan prevented 
any change to the monthly instalment amount but he thought there’d clearly been a breach 
of contract by H, who were Creation’s agents in this agreement, and that Creation were 
therefore responsible. 
He thought Mr C’s actions had been reasonable in the circumstances. He noted that he’d 
just moved into a new house and had nowhere for the family to eat their meals so he 
would’ve wanted to get a new table quickly. And, as there’d been no definitive date for a 
replacement for the one that wasn’t delivered, he thought Mr C was right to find another 
option. He noted that the items Mr C procured were of about the same price he’d been 
looking to finance through Creation but he noted that a 0% deal hadn’t been available to him 
and he’d therefore had to take on a deal in which interest was payable. That interest 
amounted to £95.74 and so he thought a fair resolution of the complaint would be for 
Creation to refund it to Mr C.
But Creation disagreed. They said six weeks wasn’t too long to wait for replacement furniture 
and they shouldn’t be expected to pay another company’s interest charges. So they asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN8360159
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator’s view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Here I think it’s clear there has been a breach of contract as the goods that were ordered 
were not delivered in full. So Creation need to put things right.
They’re unwilling to change the monthly instalments as they’ve explained the terms of the 
contract prohibit that. But it’s clear Mr C has been inconvenienced by the matter and I think 
it’s reasonable to compensate him.
He naturally wanted the furniture to be delivered when he moved into his new house and it 
appears that H has been unable to provide him with a firm date of delivery. I can understand 
that, in the circumstances, he would have lost faith in their ability to deliver on time, if at all, 
so I think it was reasonable for him to look elsewhere. 
I think it would be fair to compensate him by returning an amount equivalent to the extra 
financial burden he’s taken on as a result of him having to source his furniture elsewhere. 
The interest that he wouldn’t have paid and now has to under a new agreement, equates to 
£95.74, so I think it’s reasonable to ask Creation to pay this to resolve the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay Mr C £95.74 to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360159
