K821x#14
complaint
Mr D complains that a sofa, which was financed by a loan from Creation Consumer Finance
Limited, trading as Creation, was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr D bought a sofa in November 2013 with finance provided by a fixed sum loan agreement
with Creation. Mr D said that the sofa was misrepresented to him by the supplier of the sofa,
K. He said that K’s salesman, Mr B, told him that the Bluetooth receiver in the sofa would
work with other Bluetooth devices and that it would connect to any Smart TV. In reliance on
this statement, Mr D bought the sofa. And, before delivery of the sofa, he also bought a
Smart TV in December 2013 from another retailer as he was attracted by the TV playing
through the sofa. But, when the sofa was delivered in February 2014, it did not connect to
the Smart TV. Mr D has since discovered that even though the Smart TV had Bluetooth
capability, it was not compatible with the Bluetooth device in the sofa. This was contrary to
what Mr B had led Mr D to believe.
our adjudicator’s view
The adjudicator concluded that that there was sufficient information to suggest that Mr D was
informed that the sofa would be compatible with any Bluetooth device, which was not true.
He recommended that Creation should:-
- Cancel the agreement and take collection of the sofa;
- Refund 25% of the monthly payments; and
- Pay Mr D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Creation disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that it was incorrect to say that the
sofa was not fit for purpose as at the time of the purchase of the sofa, Mr D did not have the
Smart TV. It said that it was Mr D’s fault that he had bought the wrong TV.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Creation on 21 May 2015. I summarise my findings:
 As the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I considered was most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr D’s complaint was brought against Creation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (“CCA”). The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr D has a claim for
misrepresentation against K, he can also bring that claim against Creation. To be able to
uphold that the sofa was misrepresented to Mr D, I would need to be able to conclude not
only that Mr D was given incorrect information, but also that he was induced into buying the
sofa and entering into the loan agreement because of that information.
It was not possible to be sure what was discussed between Mr B and Mr D before Mr D 
bought the sofa. Mr D had said that he was told by Mr B that the sofa had a built-in Bluetooth 
device which would connect to any Smart TV. I could see that Mr D was attracted by this 
idea, and so he bought the sofa and also decided to buy a Smart TV to take advantage of 
Ref: DRN8319276
2
the Bluetooth technology within the sofa. He bought the TV in December 2013 before the 
sofa was delivered to him in February 2014. I noted that Mr D contacted K when he 
discovered that the sofa did not connect with the Smart TV. Mr D said that he was again told 
that the sofa should link up with Bluetooth systems.
I had seen a copy of Mr B’s statement. It said that Mr B could confirm that the sofa would
work with any compatible Bluetooth transmitter. Mr B also said that any device with a
Bluetooth transmitter would work with the sofa as the sofa unit was a Bluetooth receiver.
Creation had provided this service with a link to the manufacturer’s manual for Mr D’s
Smart TV. I could see that this did refer to the TV having a Bluetooth function although its
manufacturer had since said that the TV would not connect to every Bluetooth device. It is
unfortunate that Mr B did not provide Mr D with the same caveat.
In view of Mr B’s statement which confirmed his belief that the sofa would work with “any
device with a Bluetooth transmitter”, on balance, I considered that it was more likely than not 
that he would have said this to Mr D when selling the sofa. I also noted that Mr B had a 
Smart TV which was able to connect to a Bluetooth transmitter. So, I considered that it was 
also possible that Mr B would have told Mr D that the sofa could connect to any Smart TV.
As I found Mr D’s evidence and subsequent behaviour to be credible, I accepted that
Mr D relied on Mr B’s statements, and that they induced him into buying both the sofa and
the Smart TV. 
I also considered that Mr D would have checked to ensure that he bought a compatible TV if 
he had been told by K that not all Smart TVs could connect to the Bluetooth within the sofa. 
This meant that, on balance, I was satisfied that the sofa was misrepresented to Mr D and it 
was fair that Creation was held liable for this.
Mr D had explained in correspondence that his whole room had been designed and the
furniture in it had been bought to fit around the sofa. Mr D did not refer to any problems
with the sofa other than the lack of connection with the TV. So, I did not agree with the
adjudicator’s recommendations that the sofa should be collected, and the agreement
cancelled.
As Mr D was most concerned about the connection of the TV to the sofa, I wondered 
whether he had explored the use of a Bluetooth dongle/transmitter. I understood that this 
could make a TV, or other device, Bluetooth compatible. And I considered that it was 
possible that a Bluetooth transmitter, which was compatible with the sofa, could be 
purchased. This would be a swift solution to the problem if the right dongle/transmitter could 
be found. If Mr D was able to buy this, I said that the cost of it should be reimbursed by 
Creation.
If such a dongle/transmitter was not available, I proposed that Mr D’s Smart TV be collected 
by Creation at its cost, and that it refunded Mr D the amount of £1,079 which he had paid for 
his Smart TV. I considered that it would be reasonable for Creation to pay this amount to 
Mr D to enable him to buy a compatible Smart TV.
I also noted that Mr D believed that K should have done more to assist him with this issue. 
But, I could not require Creation to compensate Mr D for the trouble and upset caused by K’s
failings, as this service does not generally award such compensation for claims brought
under section 75 of the CCA.
Ref: DRN8319276
3
For the reasons I had explained, but subject to any further information or evidence I might
receive from the parties, my provisional decision was that I am minded to uphold this 
complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I intended to order Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited, trading as Creation, to refund Mr D the cost of a Bluetooth 
dongle/transmitter which was capable of making the Smart TV compatible with the sofa. The 
refund should be made after Creation had had sight of Mr D’s receipt for the purchased item. 
If such an item was not available, Creation should collect Mr D’s Smart TV at its cost and 
pay him £1,079 as a refund for that TV.
Creation responded to say that it agreed to cover the cost of a Bluetooth transmitter up to 
the value of £100.
Mr D disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that:-
1.
The supplier, K, was to blame as it had mis-sold the sofa, and he wanted to know 
why I had not ordered K to pay him compensation;
2.
He was unable to locate a dongle/transmitter which would connect the TV to the sofa;
3.
The TV fitted in his room and he had also spent more money buying a special stand 
for the TV to hide its wires; 
4.
He had suffered inconvenience for 16 months and he was paying insurance for an 
item he could not use; and
5.
He would like to reject the sofa.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Creation has agreed to cover the cost of the Bluetooth transmitter. But Mr D has 
spoken to the manufacturer for his TV, and it said that no Bluetooth transmitter will work with 
the TV. 
So, as I anticipated in my provisional decision that such a transmitter might not be available, 
I consider that it would be reasonable for Creation to collect Mr D’s Smart TV at its cost and 
pay him £1,079 as a refund for that TV, to enable him to then buy a compatible Smart TV. I 
note that K said that there are Smart TVs which will work with Mr D’s sofa. In order that Mr D 
does not have a problem with compatibility again, I suggest that he takes details of his sofa 
unit to a television retailer, so that the retailer can advise him which televisions will be 
compatible.
Mr D is unhappy that I haven’t ordered compensation. But as Mr D complained to Creation 
who then issued its final response to him, this complaint has been processed against 
Creation. I can’t require Creation to pay compensation under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
I note that Mr D would like a refund for the stand which he bought for the TV at a cost of 
£217.49. But, I note that the stand wasn’t specially made for the TV which Mr D bought, and 
that it can be used for other TVs up to 60 inches wide. I consider it is more likely than not 
that Mr D will be able to use the stand with a replacement TV. So, I’m not persuaded that a 
refund should be ordered for it.
Ref: DRN8319276
4
Mr D would also like a refund for part of the five year warranty which he has paid for his 
whole suite for a five year period to cover it against accidental damage to the leather and 
structural defects. Mr D said that he wasn’t able to use the unit, so he shouldn’t have to pay 
for the insurance for this. But I note that the unit includes spaces to hold drinks, and on 
balance, I consider it’s likely that these would have been used. So, in these circumstances, I 
don’t consider that a refund would be reasonable.
Mr D has again said that he would like to reject the sofa, but for the reasons set out above, I 
do not consider that this would be appropriate. 
I appreciate that this is not the outcome which Mr D wants. But he does not have to accept 
my decision and may pursue his case by alternative means should he wish to do so.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, to collect Mr D’s Smart TV at its 
cost, and pay him £1,079 as a refund for that TV.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2015.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319276
