K820x#14
complaint
Mr F complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd collected a direct debit from his bank 
account when it shouldn’t have done.
background
In early September 2017 Creation collected a direct debit of £99.06 from Mr F’s bank 
account in respect of a finance agreement. It shouldn’t have done so because Mr F had 
cancelled the agreement in late August 2017.
Creation accepted the direct debit shouldn’t have been collected. It returned the sum of 
£99.06 to Mr F’s bank account in early October 2017 and offered Mr F £30 by way of an 
apology.
Mr F’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that Creation’s 
offer of £30 compensation was, in all the circumstances, appropriate.
Mr F didn’t agree and so the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to point out that our role isn’t to punish Creation for its error here, but to 
compensate Mr F for the effect of that error on him. And although I don’t underestimate 
Mr F’s strength of feeling in this matter, I’m satisfied that given he hasn’t said he has 
suffered any direct financial loss (for example bank charges), how quickly an explanation for 
the error was provided and the amount and length of correspondence passed between the 
parties I’m satisfied that £30 represents a fair sum for Creation to have to pay. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr F, to the extent it 
hasn’t already done so, £30.
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage of this service’s dispute resolution procedure. Mr F doesn’t have to 
accept my decision and if he doesn’t do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2018..
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8075055
