K821x#15
complaint
Mr A complains about an energy product (‘Product B’) which he bought on finance from 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
background
Mr A says that the salesperson misled him at the point of sale. He says that it told him that 
the income and savings from Product B would cover the monthly finance costs.
Our adjudicator thought Mr A had been misled. In summary, she said that Mr A should be 
able to cancel the agreement and return the product.
Creation disagrees. In summary, it says that no evidence has been provided to show that 
Product B would pay for itself. It says that Mr A was provided with all the relevant 
information.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to several post purchase calls that Mr A had with the supplier, and with our 
adjudicator. After all of this I’m just not sure he really understood what he was signing up to 
at the time of sale. And I think it was the supplier’s responsibility to make sure things were 
clear.
I’m not convinced that the supplier did make things clear here. I don’t think anyone (including 
Mr A) dispute that Product B will probably pay for itself over many years. But Mr A appears 
to have been led to believe that in the short term Product B would cover his monthly 
instalments – effectively making it cost neutral during the finance term. His letter of complaint 
to Creation states this. And his conversations after the sale appear to support this too.
I know the supplier says that based on the estimates Product B wasn’t going to cover the 
instalments during the finance term. But:

Mr A says that he wasn’t shown any estimates of income at the time of sale

the information Creation says Mr A was shown about estimates is unsigned, undated 
and contradicts the figures on the satisfaction note he was given

the supplier has not provided a compelling statement from the salesperson involved to 
convince me that what Mr A is saying isn’t correct
The supplier says that the reason for the discrepancy in the output figures is that Mr A got a 
different size system to the one he originally agreed. But what happened with this isn’t clear 
from the paperwork I’ve seen. I know Mr A was shown the finance agreement because he 
signed it. But there is still an element of doubt about what was provided regarding the 
projected returns.
I don’t think Mr A was prepared to be out of pocket in the short term, even if there were long 
term gains. I believe this is quite clear from his conversations after the sale and his actions in 
Ref: DRN8671814
2
complaining. Had Mr A been given clear information about the short term situation I don’t 
think he would’ve signed up to purchase Product B.
I know that Mr A signed a satisfaction note after Product B was installed which shows the 
output is estimated and will not cover the monthly finance payments. But as this document 
was signed after the sale and related more to the quality of the installation I am not sure 
Mr A would have looked at it closely on the subject or income.
When Mr A first spoke to the supplier to complain it offered him £500 as a goodwill gesture 
to settle the matter. But my impression is that during the calls the supplier acknowledges that 
things were perhaps not as clear as they could’ve been in relation to some sales 
conversations about extras. The supplier said that there was a ‘certain level of cross 
purposes’. So it seems likely that there could’ve been the same confusion when the returns 
from Product B were discussed.
I also note that while discussing Mr A’s complaint on the phone the supplier favourably 
compares the returns from Product B to interest on a savings account. But I find the 
comparison somewhat misleading. It fails to take into account the clear differences between 
outlaying money to buy a product on finance aiming to generate a profit with investing your 
own capital to earn interest. If this type of conversation was part of the sale then I can see 
why Mr A felt misled.
I accept that the supplier has said that these products provide long term benefits. And Mr A’s 
product does appear to be generating income and energy savings. But in this case (and in 
the absence of compelling evidence from the supplier’s point of sale materials) I think it’s 
likely the supplier misled Mr A about the short term benefits.
Mr A has received some savings from the product. Our adjudicator has looked at his energy 
bills and calculated them to be around £427 up to the 14 June 2016 and 74p a day beyond 
that. I have taken a look at her calculations and they look reasonable to me. So Mr A should 
have a deduction from any refund to take into account this and the £87 income payment he 
has received.
my final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

cancel the finance agreement with no further liability for Mr A and remove any 
information about it from his credit file;

remove Product B and make right any damage caused by the removal at no cost to 
Mr A; and

refund Mr A his payments (if any) after it has deducted the £87 income payment he has 
received, and the approximate energy savings he has made of £427 plus 74p a day 
calculated from 14 June 2016 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2016.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8671814
