K821x#12
complaint
Mrs M complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd sold to her in 2007 over the telephone. The policy provided 
life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover for a two-year loan. Mrs M says she was 
told she had to have the policy to get the loan, but that she didn’t need it.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think Creation had made Mrs M aware she 
had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And she also didn’t think it made the cost 
clear.  
Creation disagreed. It said it gave Mrs M a choice whether to buy the policy and told her 
about her cancellation rights. And it also gave her enough information about the cost to 
make an informed choice.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I’ve taken into account any relevant 
regulatory rules and guidance, the law and good industry practice when the policy was sold.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints. 
did Mrs M have a real choice about whether to buy the policy?
Creation sold the policy to Mrs M during a telephone call. It hasn’t been able to provide a call 
recording; but it has provided a script it says would have been followed. I’ve considered that 
script along with the documents Creation says it would have sent to Mrs M immediately after 
the call. And I’ve also considered what Mrs M says about how the policy was sold to her. 
I’m not satisfied that Creation made Mrs M aware the policy was optional – and that she 
could choose to buy it, or not – because: 

The script is short. It didn’t require the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was 
optional, or get Mrs M’s explicit consent to add it to her loan. 

The script told the call handler to ‘include quotes with payment protection and without’. 
But it didn’t say what form those quotes should take, how they should be delivered, or 
what prominence should be given to the ‘without’ quote. So this part of the script seems 
to have been open to interpretation by each call handler and I can’t be sure what Mrs M 
was told about the quotes. 

The quotes followed right after a statement that the loan hadn’t yet been approved. And 
Mrs M’s says she remembers being told she had to have the policy to get the loan. 
Considered against the contents of the script, I find Mrs M’s submissions persuasive.

I don’t think the brief mention of cancellation rights in the script was enough to make 
Mrs M aware she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. And I also don’t think it 
would have given her the confidence to cancel the policy where she hadn’t first been 
told it was optional. 
Ref: DRN8613067
2

Mrs M ticked and signed separately for the PPI on the credit agreement. But, it already 
included the PPI which appeared, by then, to be an integral part of the figures in the 
loan agreement. And the agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mrs M chose not to 
tick and sign for the policy.  

Someone has also hand-written “please tick x2” on the agreement; directing Mrs M to 
tick the box accepting the PPI and also the box confirming she’d received information 
Creation had to give her for a distance sale. I think this would only have reinforced her 
belief that she had to have the policy. 

The ‘policy summary’ contained a statement of price, which said “It is not a requirement 
of your credit agreement…that you purchase Creditcover.” But it isn’t clear whether 
Mrs M saw this document or had it adequately drawn to her attention. Even if she saw it, 
this sentence was the very last piece of information on page two at the bottom of the 
statement of price. It wasn’t in a prominent location and could be easily overlooked.

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mrs M over the phone. I think Mrs M would have 
relied more on what she was told during the call than on anything she received in writing 
afterwards. So Creation should have made the optional nature of the policy clear to 
Mrs M during the telephone call. However, it didn’t do that.   
For all the reasons given above, I find that Creation failed to make clear to Mrs M that she 
had any real choice about whether to buy this policy. This is a significant and fundamental 
failing on Creation’s part and I uphold Mrs M’s complaint for this reason. 
other failings
Given the above, I don’t need to go on to look at any further aspects of the way the policy 
was sold. However, for clarity, I will add that I agree with the adjudicator that Creation also 
didn’t properly disclose the cost of the policy to Mrs M. I say this, briefly, because:

This was a single premium policy; where the initial premium cost was significantly 
increased by the interest added to it over the term of the loan. This wasn’t a 
straightforward way to pay for insurance and not something Mrs M was likely to 
understand. She also wasn’t likely to know that this can be an expensive way of paying 
for cover over the more familiar regular premium policy.

The script didn’t require the call handler to disclose the single premium cost, that 
interest would be charged on it and how much that interest would be, or the total cost. 

The credit agreement didn’t show the policy interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t 
reasonable to expect Mrs M to work out this figure by subtracting the PPI premium from 
the total cost. Particularly as these were only two of several figures on the credit 
agreement and as she hadn’t been told the premium would attract interest.  

I can’t be sure Mrs M saw the policy summary and statement of price. But this was the 
only place where the PPI interest was shown as a separate figure. Nothing in the title of 
this document suggested it would contain important information about the cost of the 
policy. And it didn’t make Mrs M aware that she should look at the second page to find 
out important information about the cost of her policy. That wasn’t a prominent location. 
Ref: DRN8613067
3
Creation should have made sure Mrs M’s attention was drawn to the important information 
about the policy which would be likely to affect her decision making. I have no reason to 
doubt that the cost of the policy would have been important to Mrs M. And I think that, if 
she’d been clearly told about the cost of the policy, she wouldn’t have bought it. 
fair compensation
If Mrs M hadn’t bought the policy, she would still have gone ahead with the loan. So she 
should be put back in the position she would now be in if the policy hadn’t been sold. 
I understand the loan and policy have both already ended. 
Creation should therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs M because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs M had taken out 
the loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs M actually paid and paying her the 
difference; and

paying Mrs M simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date each payment 
was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mrs M to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation has to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. 
Whether Mrs M needs to take any further action will depend on her financial circumstances. 
More information about the tax position can be found on our website. 
Mrs M should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Mrs M compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set 
out above under ‘fair compensation’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8613067
