K821x#14
complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a loan by telephone in 2009. The cost of the policy 
was added to the loan and repaid over the loan term, with interest.
background
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didn’t think Creation had given Mr G a choice 
about buying the policy – or properly told him what it would cost.
Creation disagreed. It said the telephone sales script and loan agreement made clear the 
policy was optional. And the paperwork it sent to Mr G set out the cost.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr G’s complaint.
Creation says the cover might have benefitted Mr G once his sick pay ran out. But I don’t 
need to reach a finding on whether the PPI might have been useful to Mr G – because I’m 
not satisfied Creation gave him a choice about whether to buy it in the first place. This is a 
significant and fundamental failing and is enough to uphold this complaint.
Creation sold the policy to Mr G over the phone. The script (if it was followed) did mention 
‘optional’ cover at the start. But this passing reference was followed immediately by a lot of 
information about what the policy did and didn’t cover. So Mr G could easily have missed it.
Otherwise the script didn’t give a clear indication that the PPI was a separate product. It 
didn’t give the cost of the loan with or without the PPI. And it didn’t ask Mr G for his clear and 
explicit consent to add the PPI to the loan. It only asked whether Creation could ‘go ahead 
and send (him) out documentation including the insurance cover to complete and return”.
I think that, in the context of the whole call, Mr G would have taken this question to be asking 
him whether he wanted the loan paperwork sent to him to sign. I’m not satisfied he would 
have known – from the way the question was worded, or from a brief mention of cancellation 
rights – that he had a choice, and was being asked to make a choice, about buying the PPI.
I can see that Mr G ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that also didn’t 
describe the PPI as optional. By then it looked like an integral part of the loan. The 
agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mr G didn’t tick and sign. And although the very 
last sentence at the bottom of the statement of price said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan 
to buy the policy, this wasn’t in a prominent location. Again it could be easily overlooked.
I don’t think Mr G would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware he had a 
choice. So I uphold Mr G’s complaint.
Ref: DRN8998106
2
fair compensation
Mr G should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr G because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr G had taken out the loan 
without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mr G actually paid, and paying him the difference; 
and

paying Mr G simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mr G setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr G needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr G should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr G and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mr G’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay him the compensation 
I’ve described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2014.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8998106
