K821x#15
complaint
Mr R says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when he took out a loan in 2005.
background
In 2005, Mr R bought some furniture in a shop. He took out a loan to pay for them over three 
years. At the same time, Creation sold him a PPI policy – the cost of this was added to the 
loan.
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ option which meant that Mr R could pay off the 
loan, plus a small admin fee, in the first 12 months to avoid paying interest or paying for the 
PPI. Otherwise he’d pay interest on the loan, including interest charged on the PPI, over the 
remaining 36 month term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr R’s complaint, because he didn’t think Creation had properly told 
Mr R how much the policy would cost. Creation didn’t agree so the complaint’s been passed 
to me for a decision..
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account in deciding 
Mr R’s case.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold Mr R’s complaint because I agree with the 
adjudicator – I don’t think Creation gave Mr R enough information about how much the policy 
cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr R to work it out for 
himself. All the important information about the cost of the policy should’ve been in the 
loan agreement.

The statement of price did give a separate figure for the interest – but this was on the 
second page of the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr R would expect it 
to be. I also can’t be sure it was drawn to his attention; particularly when he was in a 
shop and his attention was on buying furniture, not on buying insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Mr R better understand what the policy was costing him.  

The information in the credit agreement also wasn’t enough to make Mr R aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole loan, including the PPI cost, attracted 
interest at nearly 30%. This meant he’d pay a substantial extra amount of interest on the 
PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ life cover. 

The PPI interest shown in the statement of price was almost as much as the single 
premium for the policy. And the total policy cost was also high compared to the amount 
Ref: DRN8030619
2
Mr R was borrowing to buy the furniture. This was unusual – and I think Mr R would have 
seen this as important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. Especially 
as he was borrowing a fairly modest amount for non-essential items and his monthly 
payments (including the PPI) were less than £90.

Creation says Mr R could have cancelled the policy after signing – but he was entitled to 
be told the important information he needed to know before he signed. I don’t think the 
fact Mr R didn’t cancel the policy afterwards means he was happy with it. Or that he 
understood what it was really costing him.
Given his circumstances, I don’t think Mr R would’ve bought the policy if Creation had done 
everything it should have done during the sale. So I uphold this complaint. 
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand the loan and PPI have now ended. But Mr R borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, 
so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he paid more than he should have each 
month. Mr R now needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So Creation should:

work out and pay Mr R the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

add simple interest to the extra amount Mr R paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and so Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
pay Mr R the compensation I’ve described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2016.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8030619
