K820x#11
complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) mis-sold him a regular 
monthly premium Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) policy when he took out an 
unsecured loan in September 2009. He complains that he was not given sufficient 
information about the terms of the insurance to inform his purchasing decision.
my findings
I have carefully considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, 
in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances in accordance with our 
general approach to considering complaints about the mis-sale of PPI, which is well 
documented. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time the policy was sold. 
In essence, the questions I need to consider are:

if any advice or recommendation was given, whether the product was suitable for Mr J’s 
needs; and

whether Creation gave Mr J information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to 
put him in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he 
was buying.
If I conclude that there were shortcomings in either of the above, this will not necessarily 
result in me finding in favour of Mr J. I would also need to find that Mr J had acted differently 
– and to his detriment – as a result.
Mr J applied for his loan and insurance via a telephone call. Creation has provided us with a 
recording of that call. Mr J cannot remember whether Creation gave him advice on the 
suitability of the PPI policy – Creation says that it did not. From listening to the call, it is clear 
that Creation did not provide any advice or a recommendation to Mr J.
Creation therefore did not need to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr J’s needs – that was 
essentially a decision he needed to make for himself. Creation was however responsible for 
ensuring that it gave Mr J clear, fair and not misleading information on which he could base 
his purchasing decision.
On the call, Mr J was clearly given the option of taking the loan either with or without the 
insurance. He considered the matter, initially deciding to reject the cover, but then after 
simply being asked to consider what other cover he might have, he opted to add the cover. 
Later, when completing his loan agreement, he again had the option to reject the cover. 
The loan agreement was drawn up to show him the cost of the loan without PPI. Only at the 
end of the agreement, when he was asked to indicate he wanted the policy, did the cost of 
PPI get added into his monthly repayments.
I am therefore persuaded that Mr J was made aware that taking the policy was optional, 
he actively chose to add the cover, and he did not do so as a result of undue pressure being 
applied to him by Creation.
Mr J would be aged between 18 and 65 when the loan was due to be repaid, and at the time 
of the sale, was living in the United Kingdom and working for at least 16 hours per week. 
Ref: DRN8558098
2
It therefore appears that he was eligible for the cover provided by the policy. He has told us 
that he was not suffering from any pre-existing medical conditions and he did not have any 
indication of impending unemployment and so he would not appear to have been affected by 
any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the policy.
The main features of the policy were described to Mr J during the telephone call. 
Creation tells us that Mr J would then have been sent a full copy of the policy with his loan 
agreement, though I cannot be certain that Mr J received, or read, this posted information. 
Although the telephone description of the policy was somewhat rushed, it covered the main 
benefits and exclusions of the policy and could have provided Mr J with sufficient information 
to make his purchasing decision. However, even if I were to find that the speed of the 
delivery meant Mr J had not received sufficient information, I do not consider a failure in this 
regard would have made Mr J act differently. The information simply explained to him that 
the policy benefits were competitive in the market, he wasn’t affected by any of the main 
limitations or exclusions and that the policy might have been useful to him.
The cost of the policy was clearly given to Mr J on the telephone call, where Creation 
provided him with both the monthly cost and then calculated for him what this would amount 
to over the full 60 months of the loan. Additionally this monthly cost was then shown to Mr J 
on the credit agreement he signed where the monthly cost of the insurance and monthly 
repayment amounts with and without the cover were shown.
In summary, while appreciating that with the benefit of experience and hindsight Mr J might 
not make the same decisions about purchasing the insurance today, I am not persuaded that 
the policy was mis-sold by Creation. The policy was suitable for his financial situation, 
he was made aware of the full cost and he was not disadvantaged by any of the conditions 
or limitations of the policy. As such I am satisfied that Mr J would not have made a different 
decision about purchasing the policy even if he had been presented with clearer or more 
transparent information by Creation.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8558098
