K820x#14
complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the amount of time it took Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to cancel a 
credit agreement and the way it dealt with his enquiries.
background
Mr T borrowed money from Creation to buy an item of furniture, which he ended up returning 
to the retailer. He says Creation took too long cancelling the debt and returning his 
repayments. And, given the considerable amount of time he had to spend chasing Creation, 
he didn’t feel its offer of compensation was sufficient.
After the complaint came to us Creation offered to pay a further £50 compensation to Mr T. It 
said it had already paid £50 in recognition of the delays in refunding Mr T’s money, not 
calling him back when it said it would and to cover his call costs. And the extra £50 was in 
recognition of the delay paying the earlier compensation, between July and September 
2018.
Our investigator thought Creation’s offer was fair. But Mr T disagreed and asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
From what I’ve seen, all the money Mr T paid Creation has now been returned to him. So 
what remains for me to decide is how much compensation should be paid.
Mr T says the first £50 compensation had nothing to do with this complaint. But, having 
looked at the various letters Creation sent Mr T last year, I disagree. It seems clear the 
problem with the loan went on for several months and he got in touch with Creation several 
times about this. And the earlier £30 and £20 compensation payments (totalling £50) were 
related to the same issue he asked us to look into.
There’s no dispute that Creation made mistakes and didn’t make the payments it said it 
would as quickly as it should have. And that meant Mr T was out of pocket for longer than he 
should’ve been and had to get in touch with Creation more times than he should’ve had to.  
Mr T also says Creation’s staff weren’t always as helpful and courteous as he expected them 
to be. Creation hasn’t provided us with recordings of those calls. But its letters indicated it 
had listened to some of the calls and says its staff acted professionally, although it also 
accepted latterly that some incorrect information was given.
Taking into account the delays, Creation’s mistakes and the possibility its staff could’ve 
handled some calls better I think £100 compensation in total is a fair and reasonable 
amount. From the evidence I’ve seen it looks like Creation has already paid this amount to 
Mr T. But if he can show otherwise then Creation should look into this further and ensure any 
missing payments are made promptly.
my final decision
Ref: DRN8844581
2
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has offered a fair amount of 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8844581
