K821x#14
complaint
Miss W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to her.
background
In 2007 Miss W bought a TV and surround sound in a shop and she took out a £1,797.94 
loan to pay for it. At the same time Creation sold her a PPI policy. The policy cost £733.70, 
which was added to the loan.
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Miss W wouldn’t pay interest if she 
paid off the credit before that date. Otherwise she’d pay interest (including £699.29 of 
interest on the policy) over the remaining 48 months of the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Miss W’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Miss W would have bought the policy if 
it had done so.
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Miss W was given 
would have made her aware of what the policy cost.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Miss J’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold Miss W’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell her how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the credit 
agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Miss W to work out the interest herself. She was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was at the end of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Miss W would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to her attention, particularly when she was in a shop and her attention 
was on buying a TV – not on buying insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been good 
practice and might have helped Miss W to understand what the policy was costing her.

The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Miss W aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, attracted 
interest at 32.4%. This meant Miss W would pay a substantial extra amount of interest 
on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit she gained was ‘free’ life cover.
Ref: DRN8190320
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Miss W was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Miss W would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as she was borrowing quite a modest amount.

I don’t think Miss W would have bought the policy if she‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost her.
For these reasons, I uphold Miss W’s complaint.
fair compensation
Miss W borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and 
she paid more than she should’ve each month. So Miss W needs to get back the extra she’s 
paid.
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Miss W the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss W paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on†.

If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss W’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the 
compensation I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2015.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8190320
