K822x
complaint
Mr P acquired household goods by means of a finance agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. Mr P’s circumstances then changed, he experienced financial difficulties, and 
he agreed a reduced payment plan with Creation.
Mr P complains that three payments he made under this plan did not reach his Creation 
account. He also complains that the time taken by Creation to find these payments was 
excessive and unacceptable. In order to resolve this complaint, he wants Creation to write 
off the outstanding balance of his account.
background 
Mr P complained to Creation in the second half of April 2015. Creation was unable to provide 
a final response to him within the required period (in the second half of June), but replied 
toward the end of July. 
Creation accepted that Mr P had made the payments to it, but said that they had been lost 
because Mr P had not used his agreement number as the reference for them. Instead, he 
had used as payment reference a brief description of the acquired goods. It apologised for 
any stress and inconvenience caused by phone calls and letters from it chasing up these 
payments, but said that the problem arose because Mr P had used the wrong reference. On 
that basis, it did not uphold this part of his complaint.
 
Creation also accepted that it had found the missing payments within three weeks of 
receiving Mr P’s complaint, but took a further 11 weeks to send him its final response. It 
agreed that it had handled his complaint poorly, and offered him £50 in compensation. Mr P 
did not think this was a fair or sufficient offer.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He agreed with Creation 
about the wrong reference. But he noted that it had added charges of £55 to Mr P’s account, 
because the payments had not reached his account by the due date, even thought they had 
been made at the appropriate time. 
Our adjudicator did not consider that this was reasonable. He asked Creation to remove 
these charges, which it agreed to do.
Our adjudicator felt that compensation of £50, plus removal of these charges, represented a 
fair offer, which he recommended to Mr P. Mr P disagreed, and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find that I have come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator, for the same reasons.
I agree that Creation should not be held responsible for the payments being ‘lost’. It wrote to 
Mr P in 2014, telling him to use his agreement number as the reference for his payments. 
When Mr P notified Creation that the payments were missing, it ‘found’ them within three 
weeks.
Ref: DRN8331149
2
I also agree that Creation handled Mr P’s complaint poorly, which caused him further stress 
and inconvenience. But Mr P wants Creation to compensate him by writing off the 
outstanding balance of his account (just under £1,200). I think that a settlement along these 
lines would be disproportionate and inappropriate.
There is a technical note about trouble and upset on our public website, in which we 
describe:

how we decide whether to award compensation for distress, inconvenience, damage 
to reputation, pain and suffering

how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate

cases where we have awarded compensation
I feel that the (increased) settlement offer made by Creation in this instance (as 
recommended by our adjudicator) is appropriate, given the circumstances of Mr P’s 
complaint. It is consistent with our approach to awarding compensation, and with those case 
descriptions and awards.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay compensation of £50 to Mr P, and should remove charges to the value of £55 from his 
account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2015.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8331149
