K820x#14
complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is holding her liable for a loan which 
she says she didn’t take out. And that this has affected her credit file. 
background
On 21 April 2016, £7,500 was paid into Mrs M’s savings account by Creation following a loan 
application. On 22 April 2016, £4,000 was withdrawn from Mrs M’s savings bank account 
using her card at a branch. 
There were further transfers to Mrs M’s current account on 7, 10 15 June 2016. And another 
transfer on 5 July 2016.
Mrs M says she didn’t take out the loan. She says it wasn’t until she received a letter from 
Creation in March 2017, saying that the loan account was in arrears, and that late payments 
had been recorded on her credit file that she realised that the loan had been taken out.
Mrs M complained to Creation. She told them she hadn’t taken out the loan and she’d been 
the victim of fraud. Creation didn’t accept that the loan had been taken fraudulently. It said it 
had sent Mrs M’s letters about the arrears. And that Mrs M had initially made payments 
towards the loan. Mrs M disagreed. So she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn’t think Mrs M’s complaint should be upheld. She said that the loan had 
been paid into Mrs M’s bank account. And some of the money had been withdrawn using 
Mrs M’s bank card at a branch. She also said that payments were made towards the loan 
from accounts held by Mrs M. So she didn’t think the loan had been taken out fraudulently.
Mrs M disagreed. She said she’s been the victim of fraud and never took out the loan or 
made any payments towards it. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’m not upholding this 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Although this complaint is against Creation, the proceeds from the loan were credited to 
Mrs M’s savings account with Bank A. Mrs M’s debit card was used to withdraw these funds. 
And transfers were made to her current account.
I’ve considered information from Mrs M, Bank A and Creation in order to reach my decision. 
The loan was taken out during a telephone call. Unfortunately, Creation hasn’t been able to 
provide me with a recording of this conversation due to the time that has passed. But it has 
given me a signed copy of the loan agreement dated 13 April 2016. The address details on 
the loan agreement are the same address Mrs M has given us. And it includes the details of 
Mrs M’s savings bank account where the funds were to be paid. So whoever took out the 
loan needed access to Mrs M’s address to sign the agreement, access to Mrs M’s savings 
account and access to Mrs M’s current account because money was transferred to this 
account. 
Ref: DRN8851034
2
Creation took necessary steps to ensure that the application was sent to Mrs M’s address. 
And the funds were paid to an account in Mrs M’s name. They also carried out the 
necessary checks to ensure the loan was affordable based on the information they were 
told. So I can’t say they did anything wrong when they approved the loan. 
 
Mrs M’s been very clear that she didn’t make any payments towards the loan. But from 
looking at the payment history Creation has provided, I can see that a direct debit was made 
from Mrs M’s bank account in May 2016. I can also see that payments had been made 
towards the loan from two different bank accounts belonging to Mrs M. I’ve been able to 
listen to one of these payment calls made on 13 June 2016, which was before Mrs M notified 
Creation that she didn’t take out the loan. I’ve compared the recording to recordings of 
phone calls we’ve had with Mrs M. Having done so I can’t say the call in June was made by 
someone other than Mrs M.
I’ve been given copies of Mrs M’s statement for her savings and current accounts. And I’ve 
seen a record of both accounts activity. I can see that the loan was paid into Mrs M’s savings 
account on 21 April 2016. And on 22 April 2016 Mrs M’s bank card was used at a branch to 
withdraw £4,000. From looking at the savings account activity report I can see that Mrs M 
checked her online account balance on 15, 18, 20 and 21 April 2016. And further transfers 
were made from the savings account into Mrs M’s current account. I can see that these 
transfers helped Mrs M to pay bills and day to day spending.
Mrs M has told us that she didn’t know anything about the loan until 2017. But having 
considered what Bank A has sent us, I’m satisfied that Mrs M was regularly checking her 
savings and current account. So I’m satisfied Mrs M was monitoring her accounts throughout 
2016. I’ve also taken note that direct debits were paid and a call was made to make an 
additional payment to Creation. So overall I don’t think there is sufficient evidence to say that 
Mrs M didn’t apply for the loan.
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with what I’ve said. But from looking at the evidence I’m 
satisfied that Mrs M has benefitted from the loan. So I don’t believe Creation is doing 
anything wrong in asking Mrs M to repay the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before
29 May 2018.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8851034
