K820x#14
complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (the business) is charging him for 
furniture which was not delivered because he cancelled the order. 
background
Mr B placed an order with a supplier on 24 September for a number of items. He financed 
this through a fixed sum loan agreement with the business.
Mr B emailed the supplier on 1 November to say he no longer wanted a number of the items 
he had ordered. He says that he was unable to view them in store and so was relying on the 
supplier’s terms which noted that the consumer regulations applied if the goods were not 
custom made or if they had not been able to be viewed in store. He says he cancelled before 
delivery was made.
Mr B says that the business started to take his direct debit payments even though the 
agreement stated these would not be taken until the goods had been supplied. He says that 
the supplier told the business that the goods had been delivered when this was not true as 
only one item had been delivered and the rest had been cancelled.
Mr B says that a late payment marker was also unfairly added to his credit file and that he 
has sent letters to the business but he has not received a response.
The business says that the supplier says Mr B’s furniture was made in a particular way to 
meet his request and was not cancelled until the day the items were delivered to its store. It 
says the supplier has offered to cancel the items on payment of a cancellation fee.
The business further says that the supplier confirmed that the terms and conditions Mr B 
quoted related to on-line orders and that for in-store orders customers are advised that the 
order is non-cancellable and once signed is legally binding. It says that the supplier has told 
Mr B that he should pay a cancellation fee plus the amount due for the item he did take 
delivery of plus the associated delivery charge. It says once this happens the supplier will 
cancel the finance agreement.
The business agreed to remove the late payment marker from Mr B’s credit file.
The investigator did not uphold this complaint. He did not find that there had been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation and so did not require the business to take any further 
action. He said that the supplier had said it was willing to cancel the contract upon receipt of 
a cancellation fee, plus the cost of the coffee table and delivery. He said that once this 
happened the business said it would cancel the finance agreement and refund any 
payments made. The investigator said that if Mr B wished to accept this he should contact 
the supplier directly.
Mr B did not accept the investigator’s view. He said that the supplier’s terms and conditions 
stated that he could cancel as he had not seen the products in the showroom. He said that 
the business should not have taken direct debit payments as the delivery had not occurred 
(apart from the coffee table).
Ref: DRN8825256
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is against the business and my role is to decide whether or not the business 
has done anything wrong, and if so, what it is required to do to put this right. 
In this case Mr B ordered some furniture items in the supplier’s store. He financed his 
acquisition through a fixed sum loan agreement with the business. Because the acquisition 
was financed through a loan agreement, the business is liable in certain situations.
Mr B decided to cancel a number of the items before they were delivered to him. This was 
not due to any concerns about the quality of the goods and I do not find that there is any 
suggestion that the goods were misrepresented to him. Mr B chose to cancel part of his 
order as he decided after placing the order the items would be unsuitable for him.
The supplier has agreed to allow the cancellation however it has said a cancellation fee will 
need to be paid.
In this situation, as I do not find evidence of a misrepresentation, I find the business would 
only be liable if there had been a breach of contract. Mr B says that there has been a breach 
and has quoted the cancellation policy on the supplier’s website. I have looked at the 
website and this sets out:
‘Welcome to the.. website terms and conditions for use. These apply to the use of this 
Website and by accessing this Website and/or placing an order through the Head Office 
Telephone Sales Department, you agree to be bound by the terms and conditions set out 
below”
The supplier has said that these terms relate to orders placed through the website and 
telephone orders. Based on the information above I accept this.
I also note that on the website the cancelation policy notes that the consumer contract 
regulations only apply if the goods have not been custom made or not been examined in one 
of the showrooms. I understand Mr B’s comment about the showroom but I also accept that 
the goods were made to his specification.
Mr B was provided with a sales contract when he placed his order which he signed. This 
states:
“the goods in this order are made for you and to your specifications. It is important that you 
understand this order is a legally binding contract”
Based on the above, I find it reasonable to accept that Mr B should have been aware that he 
would be bound by the contract once the order had been placed. Mr B cancelled his order a 
number of weeks after he placed it and while I can see the items had not been delivered to 
him at that time, I accept that the supplier had made the items and I understand they were 
delivered to the store. Based on this I do not find that I can say the supplier breached the 
contract by charging a cancellation fee.
Ref: DRN8825256
3
Mr B has also complained that the business started to take his direct debit payment before 
all the items were delivered. I can see why this was frustrating for Mr B. I have listened to the 
call when Mr B raised this issue with the business and note that he was told that a 
satisfaction notice had been received and that it had not received a cancelation notice. 
Based on this I do not find it unreasonable that the business said payments would be taken. 
I note on the call the payment date was put back to allow time for Mr B to contact the 
supplier about this issue. The business has since said that the account would not normally 
be put on hold when there is not an issue with the goods but the customer has changed their 
mind.
On balance, while I note Mr B’s comments I do not find it unreasonable that the business 
started to take his payments. The finance agreement had been set up and the items made 
and while only one was delivered to Mr B, the others were available for delivery. The 
business has said that once Mr B pays the cancelation fee and costs associated with the 
item that was delivered it will cancel his finance agreement and refund his payments. I find 
this reasonable.
Mr B said that his letters were not answered by the business. I can see that a final response 
letter was sent in December 2016. However I note that Mr B has sent further letters since 
this date. Mr B has been told that this should be raised as a separate complaint and so I 
have not addressed this point further. 
If Mr B wishes to accept the supplier’s offer he should contact it directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2017.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8825256
