K821x#12
complaint
Mr Z complains that a sofa that was supplied to him under a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited was not of satisfactory quality.
background
A sofa was supplied to Mr Z in April 2011 under a fixed sum loan agreement dated 
February 2011. Mr Z complained to the supplier that the cushions had become flat. The 
supplier inspected the sofa but found no manufacturing fault. Mr Z complained to 
Creation Consumer Finance, which arranged for the supplier to make a further inspection of 
the sofa, but was not satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Creation Consumer Finance had agreed to pay for an independent inspection of the sofa 
and the inspection report identified that the cushions were not properly filled and that they 
were too loose. She recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should replace the 
sofa, refund the £25 cost of the report, with interest, to Mr Z and that it should pay him £75 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he has been caused. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The independent report says that the sofa cushions have not been filled for their proper 
function and that the cushions are too loose. I therefore consider it to be more likely than not 
that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr Z. Mr Z has been 
caused distress and inconvenience which would have been reduced if Creation Consumer 
Finance had originally instructed an independent expert (rather then the supplier) to inspect 
the sofa. As such, I agree with the adjudicator’s recommendations that the sofa should be 
replaced, that Creation Consumer Finance should refund the cost of the report, with interest, 
to Mr Z and that it should pay him £75 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Z‘s complaint. In full and final settlement 
of it, I order Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Arrange collection of Mr Z’s sofa at no cost to him.
2.
Replace the sofa with a new sofa on a like-for-like basis (or, if that is not possible, 
with a sofa that is as close as reasonably possible to Mr Z’s existing sofa after 
discussion and agreement with Mr Z).
3.
Refund to Mr Z the £25 cost of the inspection report.
4.
Pay interest on the amount at 3. above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
5.
Pay £75 to Mr Z to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he has 
been caused.
Ref: DRN8321404
2
If Creation Consumer Finance considers that it has to deduct tax from the interest element of 
my award, it should send Mr Z a tax deduction certificate when making payment. He can 
then use the certificate to reclaim the tax if he is entitled to do so.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8321404
