K820x#14
Complaint
Mr R’s complaint is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) rejected his claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75) in respect of a mattress he acquired 
using through a fixed sum loan agreement.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 

Mr R raised a s. 75 complaint with Creation in regard to a mattress he acquired from a 
retailer. The mattress was acquired through a credit agreement with Creation. Based on 
the facts of this case, I accept that Mr R had an eligible claim under s. 75 as a debtor–
creditor-supplier relationship was in place and the cost of the mattress fell within the 
limits.

For a s. 75 complaint to be successful the goods must either have been misrepresented 
or there must have been a breach of contract. Mr R’s complaint is about the quality of the 
mattress. An independent inspection was carried out in February 2019, and this found 
that the mattress was faulty. Given this, I accept that there was a breach of contract as 
the mattress wasn’t of a satisfactory standard.

In cases of breach of contract there can be different remedies. Mr R has raised the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and his right to reject the mattress. Under these regulations 
there is a short term right to reject where the goods are found to be faulty within the first 
30 days. In this case, the issue was identified after this period and Mr R raised his 
concerns around a year after acquisition. When the fault is found outside of the short 
term right to reject period then a consumer has a right to repair or replacement. If this is 
unsuccessful then there is a final right to a price reduction or rejection. The supplier in 
this case has offered to replace the mattress and I find this is reasonable and in line with 
the regulations.

Mr R contacted Creation in January 2019, and he said it wasn’t until a number of months 
later that an offer of repair was given. Mr R feels this wasn’t a reasonable timeframe and 
he should be allowed to reject the mattress. While I understand the point made by Mr R 
(including his comments about no longer wishing to deal with Creation or to accept a 
replacement) as a replacement has been offered at no cost him, I find this a reasonable 
remedy.

There is one outstanding point regrading the inspection that was carried out in February 
2019. Mr R paid for this and, given it found the mattress was faulty, I find it fair that the 
cost of this inspection is refunded to Mr R along with interest. Mr R has provided a copy 
of the invoice and this has been provided to Creation. 
Ref: DRN8016358
2
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer made to replace the mattress is reasonable and if this 
decision is accepted this should take place. I also require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
refund Mr R the cost of the inspection report he paid for in February 2019 along with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement (invoice has been 
provided).
If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8016358
