K820x#14
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly recorded his wife’s loan as 
being his borrowing.
background
Mr C had some loans with Creation, which he decided to repay. In the course of arranging 
this it became apparent that Creation had wrongly recorded a loan which Mrs C had taken in 
her sole name as being Mr C’s loan. Creation had also reported on the loan for credit 
reference purposes in his name, rather than in Mrs C’s.
Mr C says that this error caused him inconvenience. He also says that it meant his borrowing 
since 2009, with Creation and other lenders, has been at higher interest rates than should 
have been the case – because lenders would have based their rates on a falsely inflated 
figure for his overall borrowing.  
Creation accepted that wrong personal information had been put on Mr C’s loan. It 
apologised and arranged for the loan and credit reference information to be updated. It also 
paid Mr C £75 in respect of the error.
As things were not settled, Mr C brought his complaint to this service where an adjudicator 
investigated it. From the evidence, the adjudicator did not feel there was evidence to show 
that Mr C’s borrowing rates had been higher as a result of the error. Given that Creation had 
put the error right and the loans had been repaid as planned, the adjudicator did not 
recommend that Creation should do more. 
Mr C did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman – as he 
was entitled to do.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s not in dispute that Creation made a mistake. It’s since put that right but Mr C feels that, 
during the time the error was ongoing, he was disadvantaged by having Mrs C’s loan 
wrongly reported in his name.
Mr C did not experience any difficulty getting credit during the period. However, his view is 
that – but for the wrong reporting – he would have got better interest rates. The difficulty, 
though, is that there’s no firm evidence to support that or to demonstrate what lower rates he 
would have been given. 
I can understand why Mr C is so concerned about what happened. But I do not regulate 
Creation or supervise its data handling, and I have no power to fine Creation. I do not 
consider that I can fairly award compensation for interest rate losses, because there is 
insufficient supporting evidence of that. 
Taking everything into account, I find that Creation has already done enough to settle this 
complaint fairly. 
Ref: DRN8672230
2
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2016.
Jane Hingston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672230
