K821x#14
complaint
Mr L has complained that when he raised a concern about his loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd, it did not address it as quickly as it should have done.
background
Mr L took out a loan with Creation. When the first repayment was debited from his account he 
did not recognise it, so contacted Creation to say he thought he may have been a victim of a 
fraud. He says that Creation did not send him a copy of the loan agreement in a timely manner, 
and that had it done so, the matter would have been resolved quickly. The account has also 
been passed to a debt collector, but it has been put out hold pending my final decision.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, as she felt Creation had not 
done enough to assist Mr L. She recommended that Creation take the account back from the 
debt collector and pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Creation disagreed, saying it was Mr L’s responsibility to recognise transactions on his account.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for my final decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I accept that ideally Mr L would have recognised the direct debit, as he did not, I can 
see no reason why, as its customer, Creation should not have assisted him. This would not 
have been at all onerous and would have constituted what I consider to be appropriate 
customer service. If a customer has a query about a debit, I think it perfectly reasonable to 
expect a business to clarify the issue. All that would have been required would have been to 
send Mr L a copy of the agreement. Instead, the account was passed to a collection agency, 
causing some distress and inconvenience.
On this basis, I agree with the adjudicator that Creation should take the account back from the 
debt collector and pay Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Further, if interest 
has been applied because of any arrears, this should be removed. However, Creation is entitled 
to require payment of the arrears, as this is money that Mr L owes.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, it is my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:
a) take the account back from the debt collection agency;
b) remove any interest that may have been charged on any arrears; and
c)
pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2015.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076763
