K820x#14
complaint
Mrs D complains that she didn’t receive a copy of a loan agreement she entered into with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She’s unhappy that the interest free period has expired and 
that Creation is charging interest.
background
In March 2016 Mrs D placed an order for a new kitchen and entered into an agreement with 
Creation. The kitchen was installed later in 2016. The terms of the loan agreement included 
a 12 month Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest free period, which ran from the date when 
the kitchen was installed.
Mrs D says she didn’t receive a copy of the loan agreement and didn’t know who to make 
payments to during the BNPL period. She says she tried to obtain information from the 
supplier of the kitchen but it was unable to help, so she waited to hear from the loan 
company.
Mrs D says she didn’t hear anything from Creation until 2018, after the BNPL period had 
expired. She’s unhappy that she’s being charged interest on the loan. To resolve her 
complaint she wants 12 months to repay the loan without being charged any interest.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said it was likely that the loan agreement 
was either given to Mrs D in-store or emailed to her. She said the loan agreement made it 
clear that if the account wasn’t settled by the end of the 12 month BNPL period any interest 
accrued during that period would be chargeable.
Mrs D didn’t agree. She said she had gone to great efforts to obtain a copy of the loan 
agreement so that she could make payments during the BNPL period. She felt Creation 
should have written to her following installation to check that everything was satisfactory.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the loan agreement and I can see that Mrs D electronically signed this on 24 
April 2016. I appreciate that Mrs D says she’s never been provided with a copy of the loan 
agreement. I don’t doubt what Mrs D says about not being able to find a copy of the 
agreement in the folder she was given by the retailer. But I think it’s likely that the agreement 
was emailed to Mrs D, because Creation has advised that it was provided with details of Mrs 
D’s email address when she entered into the agreement.
Even if Mrs D couldn’t find the agreement that was emailed to her, I’m satisfied that she 
could have looked at the agreement online. Creation has explained that Mrs D would’ve 
been able to view the agreement including any payment due dates on her online account. 
Although Mrs D says she didn’t know who her loan was with, Creation has told this service 
that she accessed her online account and has actively used it.
It’s unfortunate that the retailer wasn’t able to provide Mrs D with the information she 
wanted. I appreciate that this must have caused frustration to Mrs D. However, based on the 
available information, I’m satisfied that the loan agreement was provided to Mrs D and that 
Ref: DRN8411122
2
she was in a position to discover the identity of the loan provider and make payments during 
the BNPL period had she wanted to do so.
I’ve also taken into account that Creation wrote to Mrs D approximately one month before 
the expiry of the BNPL period to remind her that the offer period was ending. 
I understand Mrs D is unhappy because she’s been charged interest. The terms of the 
agreement include a 12 month BNPL period. If Mrs D had paid the balance during the first 
12 months she wouldn’t have been charged any interest. But the terms of the agreement are 
clear that if the balance isn’t paid before the end of the BNPL period, interest will be 
charged. Because of this I’m unable to say that Creation has made an error in charging 
interest.
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m satisfied that Mrs D was provided with a copy of the loan 
agreement at the time when she entered into it. I’m also satisfied that Mrs D was aware that 
the agreement had a 12 month BNPL period after which interest would be charged if the 
account hadn’t been settled. Mrs D didn’t settle the account within the BNPL period so 
interest has been correctly charged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411122
