K821x#15
complaint
Mr W complains the double glazing windows and door he bought through a fixed sum loan 
agreement financed by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants damaged items replaced and compensation.
background
Mr W says the items were supplied and fitted by E, a limited company, in January 2017. The 
day after fitting he says he noticed various faults including a cracked window pane, scratch 
on the door and an incorrectly fitted window. After he complained he said arrangements 
were made for remedial works to be done. But despite these arrangements he says not all 
the work has been completed. He describes E as turning up with the wrong replacement 
windows, failing to keep appointments or making contact to say they were coming on a 
different day to that agreed. And at other times he says E has failed to keep in touch. The 
result he says is he’s lost confidence and wants to be able to arrange for another firm of his 
choosing to complete the repairs. He feels he’s due substantial compensation and a 50% 
reduction in the agreed repayment terms.
Creation told us it had upheld Mr W’s complaint. And it had offered £300 in compensation - 
subsequently increased to £350. But Mr W wouldn’t allow E access to his property to replace 
the damaged units. It felt his demands for compensation were disproportionate.
Mr W wasn’t satisfied with the offer of compensation made and complained to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 April 2018. Creation has replied 
agreeing with my provisional view. Mr W has responded agreeing with the majority of the 
proposed settlement. But he feels the refund of three monthly payments I suggested - to 
reflect impaired use - should be much greater. He thinks eleven payments should be 
refunded to take account of the length of time the defect has remained.
I thank both parties for their replies and I’ve considered what Mr W has said with regard to 
this aspect. But for the reasons I’ll explain I’m not going to be changing my final decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s hard to understand how such a relatively routine matter of replacing some window and 
door units has caused so much difficulty. The evidence I’ve seen suggests the entire 
process has been beset by one problem after another.
In the first instance this appears to have been the fault of E as some of the original units 
were damaged, wrong replacement parts were ordered and not all appointments were met 
as agreed. So I can understand Mr W losing faith and wanting to try and use another 
contractor to complete the work. And it seems when he did relent there was further lack of 
communication. This has led to the work still not being complete - over twelve months after 
initial instalment.
As the provider of finance under a fixed sum loan agreement, Creation is equally responsible 
with E for the satisfactory quality of the goods supplied. And it’s liable for any breach of 
Ref: DRN8634630
2
contract in just the same way a supplier would be. It’s not in dispute some of the items 
supplied weren’t of satisfactory quality. So the normal approach we would adopt is to try and 
return the consumer to the correct position - replace the faulty items - and award 
compensation if appropriate.
Whilst I don’t apply the law I do take it into account when considering what’s fair and 
reasonable. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides that where a consumer allows a 
supplier to repair or replace a faulty item - they are only required to allow one opportunity to 
do so before seeking alternative redress. Mr W gave E such an opportunity - indeed more 
than one - so I think he’s entitled to arrange for a suitable replacement part from another 
supplier.
Whilst Creation isn’t responsible for what might be characterised as poor service of E it is 
responsible if its own actions or failure to act result in distress and inconvenience. Whilst it 
may have been convenient for Creation to require E to put things right that doesn’t absolve it 
of responsibility if this isn’t done. It seems to me Creation should have been far more pro - 
active and taken control when it became clear the issue was not being resolved. There 
seems no reason why it could not have arranged for a different contractor to complete the 
work or agree Mr W could do so. Instead it appears to have deferred to E at every stage 
rather than meet its obligations.
As a result Mr W has suffered delay and added distress and inconvenience which could and 
should have been avoided. I’m aware some of the delay resulted from Mr W refusing to allow 
E access - but by then he’d given it enough opportunities and was entitled to have lost 
confidence. This appears to be confirmed by more delay when he did agree with the 
investigator’s suggestion to permit access - only then for there to be a lack of communication 
from E - again leading to the work not being done.
As to the level of redress I’m unable to agree with either Mr W’s request or the investigator’s 
recommendation that he should have 50% of the loan repayments waived. He’s provided a 
quotation for £148.39 to have the damaged items replaced and fitted. That puts him back to 
the position he would have been in at the start of the agreement. And he’d have had to pay 
the whole contracted amount.
But I acknowledge there’s been some impaired use since January 2017 due to the items not 
being replaced. I think Mr W should be refunded three monthly payments of £63.87 to reflect 
this. I’m aware he thinks he should get a significantly greater refund but I can’t agree. The 
basic contract price was in excess of £4,500 spread over 60 months. The cost of replacing 
and fitting the defective parts is a relatively small proportion of the overall cost - so it can be 
seen the majority of the contract was fulfilled satisfactorily.
A monthly payment relates to the entirety of goods and services supplied under the contract 
and applies for the whole period the agreement is in force. So it wouldn’t be fair and 
reasonable to order a refund which was significantly disproportionate to the level of 
impairment. The purpose of compensation is as a means of restitution - not to punish a 
business. So I think this strikes a fair balance.
I recognize Mr W has experienced distress and inconvenience and I think £350 is an 
appropriate sum to compensate for this.
Ref: DRN8634630
3
my final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is to uphold this complaint.
I’m ordering Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
Pay £148.39 to Mr W to cover the cost and fitting of replacement items.**
2.
Refund three monthly payments of £63.87 plus 8% simple interest per year from date of 
payment to date of settlement.*
3.
Pay £350 to Mr W in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Limited deducts tax from the interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate to Mr W upon request so he can reclaim the tax, if appropriate.
** Mr W should be aware that any guarantee previously attaching to the replaced items will 
no longer apply as Creation won’t be responsible for the work of the supplier Mr W employs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2018.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8634630
