K821x#12
complaint
Miss W complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her in early 2008 over the telephone by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
The policy covered a £7,000, seven-year personal loan for debt consolidation. It provided life, 
accident, sickness, unemployment and carer cover. The policy had a five-year term. Miss W 
says she was led to believe she had to take the policy to get the loan. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Miss W aware of the limited refund she would be entitled to if she cancelled 
the policy early. And she also didn’t think Creation had made Miss W properly aware of the 
cost of the policy. The adjudicator didn’t think Miss W would have agreed to buy the policy, in 
her particular circumstances, if she had been given that information. 
Creation disagreed. It said documents were issued to Miss W after she initially agreed to the 
policy during the telephone call. It says the onus was on Miss W to read those documents 
and query anything she didn’t understand. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:

whether Creation gave Miss W advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her needs; 

whether Creation gave Miss W information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed choice about the policy she was buying; and

if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Miss W is worse off as 
a result (in other words would she have done something different – such as not buy the 
policy – but for any shortcomings?)
did Creation recommend the policy to Miss W?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. It hasn’t been able to provide a 
call recording. But it has provided a sales script it says was in use at the time. That script (if it 
was followed) doesn’t suggest advice would have been given. 
Creation has also provided documents it says would have been issued to Miss W 
immediately after the call – including the credit agreement and a key facts document 
containing a policy summary and statement of price. These documents also tend to suggest 
that Creation didn’t give Miss W any specific recommendation. 
Ref: DRN8580295
2
Miss W can’t remember whether she was given advice. She does remember that the policy 
was sold over the telephone. She says she doesn’t recall any information being given to her 
about the PPI, or the cost of it. She says she was led to believe she had to have the policy to 
get the loan and, as she was consolidating debts, she accepted the policy at the time. 
Based on Miss W’s description of the telephone call – and considered against the content of 
the script Creation has provided – I have some concerns that Miss W may not have realised 
she had a choice about whether to buy the policy. I note that the credit agreement did require 
her to tick and sign for the policy. But I also note that the various signature sections and tick 
boxes have been marked with arrows and “tick box” instructions hand-written in red pen. This 
might suggest Miss W simply ticked and signed where indicated and without being made 
properly aware she had a real choice. However, I don’t need to reach a finding on that, due 
to the failings I have identified and will set out below. 
Overall – based on the available evidence – I’m not persuaded that Creation gave Miss W a 
specific recommendation to buy the policy. This means it didn’t have to take steps to ensure 
it was suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough information to allow her to make an 
informed choice about the policy she was buying. 
did Creation give Miss W enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
I find that Creation failed to properly bring to Miss W’s attention that the policy didn’t offer a 
pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early – and that it failed to properly disclose the cost of the 
policy. I also find that this was important information which would have impacted on Miss W’s 
decision to buy the policy if she had been made properly aware of it. 
When explaining why I’ve come to my findings it’s important to consider the type of policy 
Miss W bought, and also the context in which she bought it. 
This was a single premium PPI policy. Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very 
different way to most other insurance products. In particular, their cost structure is different – 
because the initial premium cost is often significantly increased by the interest added to it 
over the term of the loan. 
The fact that the single premium (and the interest on it) is added to the loan up front – and 
then paid back gradually over the term of the loan – means they often also have restrictive 
cancellation terms. Overall, this is not a straightforward way to pay for insurance and can 
lead to significant cost if cancelled early. This is not something Miss W was likely to have 
much understanding of. 
The single premium cost of the policy sold to Miss W was £1,873. A further £1,168 of interest 
added to the premium over the loan term brought the total cost of the PPI to £3,041. Miss W 
had telephoned Creation to apply for a £7,000 loan for debt consolidation. And she was 
taking it over a long period of time – seven years. There was a high likelihood that she would 
look to re-finance the loan again at some point during that period. So the impact of the policy 
cancellation provisions on her ability to refinance the loan – and what it might cost her to do 
so – was important information. Creation should have drawn Miss W’s attention to this. 
As there’s no call recording, I can’t be sure what Miss W was told during the telephone call. If 
I assume the script was followed I can see that it required the call handler to tell Miss W she 
had a statutory right to cancel the policy for up to 30 days after the agreement started, at no 
Ref: DRN8580295
3
cost. The script then required the call handler to explain what would happen if Miss W 
cancelled outside that 30-day period. 
However, according to the script, Miss W would only have been told that she would “..only be 
entitled to a partial refund of the original premium”. There was no explanation of how that 
refund would be calculated, or what it might amount to. And there was no explanation that 
the ‘partial refund’ wouldn’t be calculated on a pro-rata basis (as Miss W might otherwise 
reasonably have expected). So the information disclosed in the call script wasn’t enough to 
adequately draw Miss W’s attention to the restrictive cancellation terms. 
The script does indicate that Miss W would have been told to read the policy terms and 
conditions for details of cancellation rights. And Creation says documents were sent to 
Miss W for further clarification after she expressed ‘initial’ interest over the phone. But that’s 
my concern here. Miss W effectively agreed to have the policy added to her loan during the 
phone call. It’s reasonable to conclude that she would place greater reliance on what she 
was told during that call than on anything she received in writing afterwards. 
It is during the call that Creation should have drawn Miss W’s attention to the significant 
features of the policy, including the restrictive nature of the cancellation terms. Sending 
written information afterwards wasn’t enough to mitigate Creation’s failure to disclose this 
information orally. 
I also note that:

It’s not clear that Miss W ever saw the policy summary, or that it was adequately drawn to 
her attention. Even if she did see it, the refund information was positioned at the bottom 
of the second page; where it could be easily missed. 

The policy summary also only said a ‘partial refund’ would be given. It didn’t explicitly say 
this wouldn’t be a pro-rata refund. And it would have been difficult for Miss W to relate the 
percentage examples given in the summary to her own loan and policy term, to allow her 
to work out how much she might lose in real terms if she cancelled the policy early.

The policy summary referred Miss W to the policy document for further information. Again 
it isn’t clear she received the policy document (or when). But even if she did, the relevant 
information is on pages 17 and 18 of a 25-page document. I don’t consider that to be 
prominently positioned, or adequately brought to Miss W’s attention. 
I also find that Creation failed to adequately disclose the policy cost to Miss W, because:

The script didn’t require the call handler to disclose the PPI single premium, or the 
interest charged on it. It did require the call handler to provide the total cost of the PPI. It 
also required them to give monthly costs with and without PPI. However, Miss W’s 
recollection is that only the cost with PPI was given. This doesn’t leave me with much 
confidence that the script was followed, or that Miss W took away from the call a clear 
understanding of the cost of the policy. 

The credit agreement did disclose the single premium and total cost. But again it didn’t 
show the interest cost as a separate figure. It also didn’t show the monthly cost of the 
PPI, which might have helped Miss W to better understand the cost of it relative to the 
loan she was taking out. 
Ref: DRN8580295
4

The policy summary did include a statement of price which set out the single premium 
and interest separately. But I’ve already explained that I can’t be sure if, or when, Miss W 
saw this document. And the third page of this document wasn’t where she would expect 
to find important information about the cost of the policy. She would reasonably expect to 
find that information in the credit agreement itself. 
Creation says the onus was on Miss W to review the information given and ask for further 
details if she didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s responsibility 
to give Miss W enough information about the main features and benefits of the policy to 
enable her to make an informed choice. For the reasons given above I find it failed to do so 
here. And I find that Miss W wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failings. 
I therefore uphold this complaint. 
fair redress
I find that, if Miss W hadn’t bought the PPI policy, she would still have gone ahead with the 
loan. Therefore she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the 
PPI policy hadn’t been sold. 
The PPI policy had a five-year term so should have ended in 2013. However, I understand 
that the loan is still in place as it wasn’t due to end until 2015. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
A. Restructure the loan (without charge to Miss W) so that:

any outstanding PPI is removed; and

the number and amounts of any future loan repayments (including any interest and 
charges) are the same as they would have been if Miss W had taken out the loan without 
PPI.
B. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Miss W because PPI was added 
to her loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Miss W had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Miss W actually paid and paying her the difference; 
and

paying Miss W interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate of 
8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
C. Write to Miss W to set out what she still owes and how much she will pay and when as a 
result of (A). This should include the details of the calculations and amounts under (B).
If Miss W wants to use any money she receives to reduce the loan, Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should allow this. But it cannot require Miss W to reduce the loan to less than it 
would be now had Miss W not bought the PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN8580295
5
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Miss W needs to take any further action will depend on 
her financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website.
Miss W should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the approach 
it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know 
more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8580295
