K822x
complaint
Ms C complains that furniture she bought with a loan from Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited is of unsatisfactory quality and unfit for purpose.
She brings this complaint against Creation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
background
Ms C bought a sofa and some other furniture (as part of a set) from a third party (that I’ll call 
D) in May 2017. She got a loan from Creation to fund the purchase. She thinks the sofa is 
uncomfortable and not fit for purpose. D carried out some remedial work but this didn’t help. 
So Ms C arranged for an expert to inspect in September 2017. He found the sofa has a 
number of manufacturing faults.
Creation and D didn’t accept those conclusions. They instructed a second expert and he 
says the issues are probably wear and tear related. Ms C was unhappy with that and she 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought it might help to get a view from another independent expert. The 
parties agreed and a third expert was instructed. He says the sofa is faulty but D and 
Creation don’t accept his findings.
Our investigator thinks the weight of the evidence suggests this sofa probably has 
manufacturing defects. He considers it is likely to have been of unsatisfactory quality when 
Ms C got it and recommends the complaint should be upheld.
The sofa is part of a matching set so our investigator says Creation should arrange to take 
that back, cancel the finance and mark the loan as settled on Ms C’s credit file. He considers 
Creation should also refund expert’s fees and the deposit and instalments paid under the 
loan, plus interest. He feels Ms C did her best to sort things out with D and Creation and it’s 
unfair that she’s had to put up with faulty furniture for such a long time. He says Creation 
should pay Ms C £150 compensation for the associated distress and inconvenience.
Creation doesn’t agree. It asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I’ve reached much the same conclusions 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 says a lender may be held equally liable with a 
supplier if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation, in certain circumstances.
D was obliged (under legislation) to ensure that the goods it sold Ms C here were of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Ms C thinks D is in breach of that obligation – as the 
sofa is faulty. So she brings her complaint against Creation under section 75, because it lent 
her the money to pay the furniture.
Ref: DRN8673146
2
My job is to decide what, if anything, Creation should do to resolve this complaint. I’ve 
looked at all of the available evidence and the wider circumstances in order reach what 
I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. And I’ve taken the relevant law (amongst other 
things) including section 75 into account.
I’ve read each of the expert’s reports carefully. I note all of the experts inspected the sofa 
after D had the chance to repair. The first expert says the sofa has multiple manufacturing 
defects that are outside relevant manufacturing tolerances. He thinks these will only get 
worse over time. He finds the sofa is unfit for purpose and repair is not a viable option.
The second expert thinks the issues are more likely to be wear and tear related – but he 
doesn’t explain why, in any great detail. The third expert’s conclusions seem to be much the 
same as those of the first – he says the sofa seats have lost density in excess of 
manufacturing tolerances, the webbing is unsupportive and attempts at repair haven’t 
worked.
When there’s contradictory evidence like this, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – I decide what I think is most likely taking the available evidence and wider 
circumstances into account.
I find the evidence of the first and third experts to be more compelling than that of the 
second expert, on balance. I consider their explanations about what’s gone wrong make 
sense. And I find their arguments about why these issues are more likely to be due to 
manufacturing faults (rather than wear and tear) to be credible and consistent.
Looking at all of the evidence, I’m satisfied it is more likely than not this sofa was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. I think it was reasonable of Ms C to give D to 
chance to fix things – but I’m satisfied those repairs haven’t been successful. I consider it is 
fair and reasonable for Ms C to be allowed to reject the goods now. And I find Creation 
should cancel this loan, arrange for the furniture set to be collected, return the deposit and 
refund any instalments plus interest.
I’m satisfied Ms C only had to instruct experts because the goods were faulty. So I think it is 
fair for Creation to refund any fees she paid, if it hasn’t done so already. I accept Ms C is 
likely to have been upset and inconvenienced as a result of receiving this faulty sofa. And 
I find it is fair and reasonable for Creation to pay her £150 compensation for that.
my final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to:
1.
cancel the loan agreement and mark it as settled on Ms C’s credit file;
2.
refund Ms C’s deposit and any repayments she made towards the loan;
3.
refund any expert’s fees Ms C paid (not refunded already);
4.
pay interest on the refunds referred to at 2 and 3 above at 8% simple a year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
5.
arrange for the furniture set to be collected at a mutually convenient time – at no cost to 
Ms C; and
6.
pay Ms C £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN8673146
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2018.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8673146
