K821x#14
complaint
Miss C complains she hasn’t been provided with a service she paid for with the aid of a loan 
from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“the firm”). The supplier is insolvent and the firm has 
refused to refund the money she’s spent.
background
In 2009 Miss C purchased a monitored alarm system for her home. She says she agreed to 
the purchase because she was told that the system would be monitored to help protect her 
in the event of a burglary or fire. 
Miss C said the monitoring and maintenance service was to last 15 years. She paid £5,049 
for the system, using a fixed term loan on a ten-year term, although interest on the loan 
meant the eventual amount she paid was £5,964.46.
Soon after the sale the supplier got into financial difficulties and is currently in liquidation. 
This meant the maintenance and monitoring service was only provided for 25 months before 
the supplier stopped trading, but Miss C had to continue making payments to the firm under 
the terms of her loan.
Miss C complained about this via a representative. The firm responded to say the loan was 
for the alarm itself, and that the monitoring and maintenance service was not included in the 
price of the agreement. It said these were additional services the supplier had been willing to 
provide to her. Unhappy with the response, Miss C asked this service to consider the 
complaint.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, and concluded that Miss C had purchased 
the alarm specifically because of the monitoring service and that if this hadn’t formed a key 
part of the agreement she wouldn’t have done so. 
The adjudicator recommended that the firm should refund all the payments Miss C would 
have been due to pay to her loan after March 2011, which was when the supplier ceased to 
trade.
The firm didn’t respond to our adjudicator and the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsman’s decision.
 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached much the same conclusion as the adjudicator and for largely 
the same reasons.
The promotional material provided to Miss C at the time of the sale clearly shows the 
monitoring and maintenance service as a principal selling point, and I’m satisfied that Miss C 
wouldn’t have purchased the alarm hadn’t she been persuaded that this service formed part 
of the agreement.
Ref: DRN8493980
2
Unfortunately, the supplier hasn’t been able to honour the agreement it had with Miss C, due 
to its financial position. 
When a purchase is made with the assistance of credit, the Consumer Credit Act says the 
creditor can be liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if, 
amongst other things, the supplier is insolvent. 
On this occasion it is, so I’m satisfied the firm can be held liable for the failure of the supplier 
either to properly explain the agreement it was making with Miss C, or to carry out the 
agreement in full.
Miss C was provided with the service she had paid for from the date of purchase in February 
2009 until March 2011, so I think it’s fair for her to pay for that. 
However, I don’t think she should be asked to pay the full amount she agreed with the 
supplier, taking into account the costs of the finance provided to her. 
For these reasons, I’m going to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
To put things right for Miss C, I now require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:-

Make a payment of £5,136.06 to cover the amount paid by Miss C over and above 
the cost of the 25 months of service she received.

Make a payment to cover interest at 8% simple of £5,136.06, from March 2011 to the 
date of settlement.
The firm should deduct basic rate tax from the interest element of my award and provide 
Miss C with a certificate of tax deduction so they can claim a refund, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2015.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493980
