K821x#15
complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has 
unfairly declined their claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“CCA”).
background
Mr and Mrs C attended a sales presentation by a business I’ll call Business T where they 
were told about a holiday Club. Mr and Mrs C already had a timeshare, but they had to pay 
maintenance fees annually, and they hoped to be able to give this up to save on fees. They 
say they were told Business T would take over their existing timeshare, deal with any 
maintenance fees, and enrol them in a ‘cashback’ scheme ran by a business I’ll call 
Business CB, if they agreed to become members of a holiday club I’ll call Club C. Mr and 
Mrs C thought membership entitled them to discounted accommodation and other benefits 
and the cashback scheme would cover the cost of the membership after three years. The 
total cost was £7,509.66. Mr and Mrs C paid Business T £2,180.66 using Mrs C’s Creation 
credit card and the rest was paid by bank transfer from Mrs C’s account.1 
Mr and Mrs C have said Business T didn’t take over their existing timeshare and they didn’t 
get the discounted accommodation or other discounts they thought they’d get through 
Club C. They say they were promised by Business T’s sales representative that they would 
get all of their membership costs back through the cashback scheme, but again they didn’t 
get what they were promised. Mr and Mrs C say Business T either misrepresented the 
benefits of the Club C membership and cashback scheme or were in breach of contract for 
not providing those benefits. They also say that Business T subjected them to high pressure 
sales techniques and said this was the only way to get out of their existing timeshare – in 
fact their existing timeshare provider allowed them to give up their membership directly.
As Mr and Mrs C had paid Business T partly using a credit card, they asked Creation to 
refund the full purchase price as they felt Creation was jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation under s.75 CCA.
But Creation turned down Mr and Mrs C’s claim as it said the way the agreement was set up 
and paid for meant s.75 CCA didn’t apply. It said that provision only meant it was liable if the 
purchase price had been paid to the supplier of the service. But payment was made to 
Business T and the services were actually supplied by different businesses, so Creation 
didn’t think it needed to pay anything to Mr and Mrs C. Unhappy with its response, they 
brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and thought it should have been upheld. 
They thought there was a misrepresentation that Mr and Mrs C would get money through the 
cashback scheme, so they recommended Creation pay compensation.
Creation disagreed for the same reasons as before and asked for the complaint to be looked 
at again. A different investigator reviewed the file and agreed that Creation had dealt with the 
matter fairly. They said that Creation could be liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation about the contract Mr and Mrs C entered into with Business T, but the 
matters complained about were things that were done by different businesses. So they didn’t 
1 Both Mr and Mrs C brought the complaint to our service, but only Mrs C is an eligible complainant as 
the credit card used was hers. As Mr and Mrs C went through the purchase process together, I have 
referred to both of them in this decision, but it would be for Mrs C to accept any final decision and any 
compensation needs to be paid to Mrs C only.
Ref: DRN8425726
2
think Creation was jointly responsible for what went wrong. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments, I came to a different 
conclusion to out investigator and thought the complaint should have been upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision that set out my thoughts at that stage and invited both parties to send 
me in anything further they wanted me to think about before I issued a final decision. Below 
is an extract from my provisional decision:
“In this complaint I think it’s important to first set out what I find Mr and Mrs C agreed 
to, with which business and whether they have any cause of action against those 
businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I’ll then look at whether that 
is something Creation needs to consider given the relationships between the parties. 
Finally, if I find Creation has to consider any claim, I’ll think about whether it has 
properly considered that claim.
Mr and Mrs C’s agreements
I’ve set out above what Mr and Mrs C have said they thought they were buying from 
Business T. So I’ve looked at the available documents to see whether they reflect 
what Mr and Mrs C thought they were signing up to.
Mr and Mrs C signed a document titled “MEMBERSHIP APPLICATION” on 13 
September 2007 that reads:
“This agreement is made by [Business T], whose registered address is 
[ADDRESS], for the purpose of purchasing membership to the [Club C]. As 
follows:-“
Mr and Mrs C’s details are recorded and there is a section titled “To be completed 
by the marketer”. It sets out the total price, £7,600, and breaks this down into 
£2,280 to be paid by credit card and £5,320 by bank transfer. At the bottom of the 
page Mr and Mrs C have signed just below where it reads:
“I confirm the details provided are accurate and correct, and that I have fully 
read, understood and agree to the terms and conditions attached hereto.”
The terms and conditions have been supplied by Mr and Mrs C, so I think they had a 
copy provided to them. They run to three pages, so I think it’s likely Mr and Mrs C 
would have had the chance to read them before they signed the contract – they 
haven’t said they didn’t have this chance and I see they have signed the terms 
separately to say they have read them. This document sets out some of what Club C 
did for its members and, although Business T’s logo appears on the top of the page, 
Business T isn’t actually mentioned by name in any of the terms. Some of the most 
relevant parts read as follows:
Ref: DRN8425726
3
“Membership
1.
I/we understand that I/we have applied for membership to [Club C] and 
understand the associated benefit (outlined in addendum 1.0)
2.
I/we understand that Platinum membership level is indefinite subject to 
payment of an annual subscription fee (The current subscription fee is 
printed on the front side of this contract)
…
9.
[Club C] endeavours to ensure that my/our membership benefits available 
at all times and will continuously strive to provide new services.
10. I/we understand that my/or Membership and membership documents will 
be dispatched by [Club C], upon receipt of our completion details, directly 
to me.
…
Services
[This section sets out some of the services offered by Club C and its liability 
to members. It makes no mention of Business T]
…
13. I/we understand that every effort will be made to obtain my/our selected 
destinations and occupation dates. However it is understood that 
alternative accommodation and travel arrangements may be offered 
subject to seasonal availability.
14. I/we acknowledge that [Club C] reserves the right to withdraw any of the 
services at any time.
…
Liability
1.
I/we understand that the company whose details appear on the front side 
of this application is an independent entity authorised to sell memberships 
to [Club C].
2.
[Club C] warrants that it shall use its best endeavours to provide the 
services with reasonable care and attention and, as far as is possible, will 
accord to your request.
3.
Where [Club C] supplies you with any products or services provided by a 
third party, [Club C] will be acting as your agent in connection therewith 
and will use its upmost care in selecting the supplier and ensuring the 
products or services are provided in accordance with your request.
…
6.
[Club C] shall not be liable to you or be deemed to be in breach of these 
Terms and Conditions by reason of any delay in performing, or any failure 
to perform, any of [Club C]’s obligations in relation to the services, if the 
delay or failure was due to any cause beyond [Club C]’s reasonable 
control.
7.
[Club C] may vary these Terms and Conditions from time to time and will 
notify you of any changes in a timely manner…”
Ref: DRN8425726
4
Addendum 1.0 [Club C] Membership
Platinum Membership entitles you to:
Full access to Travel section – Unlimited bookings per year…
[IT GOES ON TO LIST OTHER TRAVEL AND LEISURE BENEFITS]”
Having seen Mrs C’s credit card receipts and the balance transfer, they paid slightly 
less than the price set out on the contract (£7,509.66 instead of £7,600). I’m not 
entirely sure why they paid less, but I don’t think it makes a difference for the purpose 
of this decision.
What is clear is that the membership application and attached terms don’t contain all 
of the agreement between Mr and Mrs C and Business T. I say this because it makes 
no mention of the cashback offer or how Business T were going to take over their 
existing timeshare. So I need to consider everything Mr and Mrs C were told as well 
as all of the other evidence available to work out what the arrangements were 
between the parties. I think it would be helpful to set out separately the three things 
Mr and Mrs C say they were getting, what I find the terms of the agreement were, 
and whether I think there may have been any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation.
a.
Club C membership
I think the documents available show that Mr and Mrs C bought membership of 
Club C, and they suggest that was from Business T. The membership cost £7,429 
and lasted indefinitely, subject to the payment of an annual subscription fee (£95 at 
the time they took out the agreement). Once Business T took payment it was for 
Club C to send to Mr and Mrs C their “Membership and membership documents”.
In addition, once the membership was started, there was some sort of relationship 
between Mr and Mrs C and Club C, who ran the membership and its benefits. 
Although the application above says the agreement is with Business T, all of the 
services are described as being provided by Club C or its agents, but none by 
Business T. Similarly, Club C has attempted to limit its liability for any breach of the 
contract terms and says that it can vary the terms of the agreement, which implies 
there is a contractual relationship between Mr and Mrs C and Club C.
“Indefinite” isn’t defined in the contract and there’s no description about how this 
would work in practice, for example, whether Mr or Mrs C could pass their indefinite 
membership onto another person. This is important as Club C was wound up in 
2012, so their membership didn’t last forever.
I’ve thought about the general principles of construction and interpretation of 
contracts, having regard to the contract as a whole and how these types of contract 
operate in practice. I think the description of the membership being “indefinite subject 
to an annual subscription fee”, implies that upon payment on an annual fee, Mr and 
Mrs C were able to access the benefits of Club C membership that year. And, if that 
fee wasn’t paid, they weren’t able to access those benefits. I think this is slightly 
different to a contract that can be renewed annually, such as a contract of insurance, 
as it means the decision on whether to continue lay solely with Mr and Mrs C rather 
Ref: DRN8425726
5
than with Club C. So there was a large membership joining fee and a much smaller 
annual fee thereafter.
It is unclear to whom Mr and Mrs C are supposed to pay the annual subscription fee, 
as it just says the membership to Club C is indefinite, subject to the annual 
subscription fee. I’ve seen some demands for payment from Club C in 2012, 
instructing Mr and Mrs C to pay its accountants, but that’s not set out in the terms 
that were provided at the time of sale. But I’m satisfied that Club C felt there was an 
ongoing obligation on Mr and Mrs C to pay the fees. I can’t see there were any 
ongoing contractual relations between Mr and Mrs C and Business T with respect to 
Club C membership after it was arranged and all of the benefits are provided by 
Club C.
On the front of the membership application only Business T’s logo appears and it 
says the agreement is made by Business T “for the purpose of purchasing 
membership to” Club C. And in the terms and conditions it says “I/we understand that 
the company whose details appear on the front side of this application is an 
independent entity authorised to sell memberships to [Club C].” So I think there was 
a contract between Mr and Mrs C and Business T for Business T to procure 
membership to Club C. They paid for this partly using Mrs C’s Creation credit card 
and partly using a bank transfer. Membership was arranged as set out under the 
contract.
But I also think that at the same time Business T was entering into a contract in its 
own name, it was also acting as an agent for Club C. I think there was a contractual 
relationship between Club C and Mr and Mrs C – once they had paid for membership 
it was supplied by Club C (paragraph 10 of the section of the terms titled 
Membership) and Club C provided them all of the benefits of membership. But Mr 
and Mrs C didn’t have any dealings with Club C directly, so I think the only way it 
could have entered into a contract with them was through the use of an agent. 
In short, Business T approached Mr and Mrs C, marketed a package of holiday 
benefits, including Club C membership, and took payment from them. But the actual 
Club C membership, and the associated benefits, appears to be supplied by Club C 
after Business T has sent the “completion details”. So I think there were two 
contracts, one between Mr and Mrs C and Business T and one between Mr and 
Mrs C and Club C.
In 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills petitioned for 
Club C to be wound up (“the Petition”). I’ve seen a copy of the Petition that was 
presented to the Court. It names a number of companies that were linked with the 
principal activity of selling membership to Club C. The Petition alleged that the 
companies were linked by the involvement of the same individuals, but the overall 
structure of the group was difficult to penetrate and that meant the controlling parties 
had remained hidden. The Petition was presented on the basis that Club C was 
involved in misleading customers, including making misleading representations about 
how it could help people out of existing timeshare obligations and presenting a 
complex and possibly insolvent cashback scheme. Club C was wound up by the 
Court in October 2012.
Mr and Mrs C say they didn’t get what they’d been promised by taking out Club C 
membership. And Club C was wound up in 2012, so their membership wasn’t 
Ref: DRN8425726
6
indefinite. But I think it’s clear that anything offered by Club C to its members was 
provided by Club C and not Business T. In other words, I can’t see the Business T 
could be held responsible for a breach of contract due to Club C’s failures. And I 
don’t think Mr and Mrs C’s contract with Business T was breached by Club C being 
wound up in 2012. I think the agreement between Business T and Mr and Mrs C, so 
far as Club C membership was concerned, was simply to arrange membership. That 
was done and I don’t think Business T has breached that contract. It’s possible Mr 
and Mrs C have a claim for breach of contract against Club C, but for the reasons I’ll 
set out below, I don’t think that is something Creation has to answer.
Business T told Mr and Mrs C things about the benefits of Club C membership when 
they decided to take it out. In particular they have said that they “would never have to 
pay full price for a holiday again” and they could get cheap luxury holidays. Mr and 
Mrs C say they were shown a website during a sales presentation that shows 
examples of what was available, but when they came to try to book, the holidays 
were the same price or more expensive than that available through other travel 
agents. 
These are things that Mr and Mrs C say were misrepresented to them and it’s 
possible that these representations could have induced them to enter into an 
agreement with Business T for the things it provided, as well as with Club C for the 
membership benefits. So I’ve considered those representations and whether I think 
there is something further that needs to be considered by Creation.
I have no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs C’s memories of what they were told are 
correct. But I don’t think there’s enough evidence available to me to say the 
representations were untrue. Mr and Mrs C haven’t provided any screenshots or 
other supporting evidence as to the types of holidays available to Club C members 
and the costs of those holidays. I understand Mr and Mrs C say that they could get 
the same holidays cheaper elsewhere, but I don’t have anything to show these were 
like for like comparisons of the same holidays, at the same time, and with the same 
things included in the price. And even if Mr and Mrs C were able to find a particular 
holiday package cheaper elsewhere, it doesn’t mean that Club C didn’t offer some 
sort of discount from the “full price”, albeit a smaller one. So based on what I have 
seen I’m not able to conclude that Business T misrepresented the benefits of Club C 
membership.
b.
the cashback offer
There isn’t any documentary evidence to show how the cashback offer was 
presented to Mr and Mrs C or any terms they agreed to at the time. But Mr and Mrs C 
have provided their recollections which I accept are as clear and honest as possible, 
given the time since the sale. They have said that after three years they thought they 
could apply for £10,100 cashback through the scheme, but by buying Club C 
membership they were guaranteed to receive back at least the cost of their Club C 
membership. 
Ref: DRN8425726
7
On 13 September 2007, the day Mr and Mrs C applied for Club C membership, 
Business T sent them a letter that read:
“This letter is to confirm that the [Business CB] offer which you have received 
is free of charge and for the value of £10,100.
Your certificate will be sent to you by registered post, simply return as direct. 
Your claim will then be processed and the funds received after 36 months.”
Mr and Mrs C say they didn’t get their certificate and had to go back to Business T on 
another date to get it issued to them. Mr and Mrs C have provided a copy of the 
“CashBack Certificate”. It reads:
“This is to confirm that upon completion of the below numbered 
contract/invoice number (product reference number) you will be issued with a 
CASHBACK EURO VOUCHER by [Business CB].
Your Euro Voucher will be sent to you by registered post. Upon receipt simply 
follow the terms and conditions on the reverse of the Euro Voucher and 
[Business CB] will then process your claim.”
The certificate makes clear that it relates to Mr and Mrs C’s membership agreement, 
with Business T named as the merchants. It says the voucher amount was £10,100. 
The certificate isn’t dated. I’ve also seen a one-page document that sets out how to 
register under the scheme and make a claim, as well as some terms and conditions. 
On 23 June 2008, Business CB sent Mr and Mrs C their “Euro Voucher” with another 
set of terms and conditions of how to register to get a payment. Mr and Mrs C did 
register, but they were later told they hadn’t done so in the right way and had 
breached the terms of the offer, so nothing was paid to them.
 
I haven’t seen anything to show that Business T and Business CB are linked 
businesses, so I can’t say that Business T ran the cashback scheme or had control 
over how it paid out money. So it’s necessary to make a decision about whether Mr 
and Mrs C contracted with Business CB or Business T, or both.
I’m satisfied that Mr and Mrs C didn’t have access to the terms and conditions 
detailed on the certificate before they entered into an agreement with Business T. I 
say that because they have explained that they had to return to get the certificate 
after the sale and the actual voucher was sent out around nine months later. That 
means I don’t think I can say Mr and Mrs C entered into a contract with any party 
based on the terms and conditions sent out later. 
But I think the terms and conditions are helpful to set out who the parties are and 
how Business T and Business CB intended it to work. It says:
“This promotional [Business CB] Euro Voucher has been presented to you, 
the named holder(s), …on behalf of the Euro Voucher owners, 
[Business CB]…
This Euro Voucher is part of the [Business CB], Euro Voucher programme…
Ref: DRN8425726
8
The merchant has entered into an agreement with [Business CB] to gift Euro 
Vouchers to its customers and has agreed to effect payments in respect 
thereof to the custodian in the sum of 12% of the value of each presented 
Euro Voucher…
On receipt of the monies from the merchant, the custodians will pay 45% 
thereof into a custodian account to be used for the purpose of paying those 
named holders who have successfully registered their intent to claim…
Subject to both stages of the claim process being completed in the manner 
specified in the Terms and Conditions herein, the custodian will be instructed 
to issue the relevant payments to the named holders…
…these terms and conditions are the whole agreement between you, the 
merchant and [Business CB] and you may not rely on any oral or written 
representations made to you which are not included in these terms and 
conditions in any way whatsoever”
On the Cashback Certificate, Business T are named as the merchants. In Mr and 
Mrs C’s case, Business T would have paid 12% of the voucher value (£1,212) to the 
custodians – they are a named firm of accountants. The custodians put £545.40 into 
an account from which cashback is later paid. The contract doesn’t make clear what 
happens to the remainder of the money paid, but as the scheme is run by 
Business CB, it is assumed that it took the remainder.
The terms and conditions set out how Business CB work out how much each 
successful consumer would get back and how it instructs the custodian to pay money 
out. The only role the merchant (Business T) had was to make the initial payment 
into the scheme. In the terms, Business CB accept that there is some sort of 
agreement between itself and Mr and Mrs C (and Business T), but I think that any 
agreement for the administration and payment of the cashback scheme was between 
the consumer and Business CB.
In the Petition referred to above, it was alleged that an incentive to take out Club C 
membership was the chance to join a cashback scheme run by Business CB. The 
Petition alleged the scheme was set up, funded and managed by the same 
individuals that controlled Club C. The Petition describes the scheme requirements to 
get any cashback are “onerous and calculated to ensure that only 32% of all 
applicants successfully register and can therefore expect to receive a payout”. It was 
estimated that a successful applicant would likely only receive around 17% of the 
voucher value. And when Mr and Mrs C came to claim they received nothing.
I’ve thought about what agreement, if any, Mr and Mrs C entered into with 
Business T with respect to cashback. I don’t think they had an agreement with 
Business T that it would provide cashback to Mr and Mrs C after three years, either 
directly or by using Business CB to fulfil its part of the agreement. I say that because 
Mr and Mrs C haven’t said that’s how they understood the cashback would work. 
They have talked about a ‘scheme’ under which they could ‘apply’ for cashback, and 
they haven’t said they thought Business T was going to pay it. 
On balance, I think it’s most likely that Business T told Mr and Mrs C they would be 
enrolled on a cashback scheme they could claim on three years later. And I think the 
Ref: DRN8425726
9
arrangements between Mr and Mrs C, Business T and Business CB were similar to 
the arrangements for Club C membership as set out above. Although the terms 
provided later to Mr and Mrs C state that Business T was to pay £1,212 to join the 
scheme, I can’t be sure how that money way actually paid as this would have been in 
addition to the cost of Club C membership – as noted in the Petition, Club C and 
Business CB were linked businesses, so it may be that they reached some 
agreement between them as to how to divide up what was paid. But I think the actual 
contractual relationship to provide cashback was between Mr and Mrs C and 
Business CB, with Business T acting as Business CB’s agent. For the reasons I’ll 
explain further below, I don’t think I need to make a finding as to the terms of the 
arrangement between Mr and Mrs C and Business CB as I don’t think Creation 
needs to answer any claim for breach of that contract. 
However, as with Club C membership, I also think there was a contract between Mr 
and Mrs C and Business T for Business T to procure enrolment with Business CB. 
This was paid for in the same way, partly using Mrs C’s Creation credit card and 
partly using a bank transfer. But I can’t see that this contract was breached by 
Business CB not providing Mr and Mrs C cashback later on. I think the agreement 
between Business T and Mr and Mrs C, so far as cashback was concerned, was 
simply to procure enrolment to the scheme. That was done and I don’t think 
Business T has breached that contract. 
But I do think any representation made by Business T about the cashback scheme 
could be relevant to Mr and Mrs C’s claim against Creation. Based on what I’ve seen 
so far, I think it’s more likely that not that Business T made a representation that Mr 
and Mrs C were likely to get back 100% of their certificate value and guaranteed to 
get back their Club C membership cost, if they took out Club C membership. As I 
said before, I don’t think they were told how to claim until they’d already paid 
Business T and entered into an agreement with them. The only written evidence from 
the time of sale, the letter of 13 September 2007 as set out in full above, doesn’t 
explain that they could receive less the amounts Business T said they would get. At 
the time Mr and Mrs C entered into the contract, Business T would have known how 
much it had had to pay to Business CB and how a customer needed to make a claim. 
So I think it must have known no claim value was guaranteed and that it was 
complex and onerous to make a claim. But it didn’t explain this to Mr and Mrs C to 
correct the false representation I find it made to them about the sums they were 
guaranteed to get. It follows, I think Business T knowingly misled Mr and Mrs C.
I also think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs C to rely on this claim, even though the 
certificate value was higher than the amount they paid Business T. That is because 
they were giving up an existing timeshare and I think they would have thought the 
cashback sum was higher to reflect that.
At present I am minded to find that Mr and Mrs C relied on this representation when 
entering into the contract with Business T and it was one of the main reasons for 
doing so – plainly a guarantee of a substantial pay-out in the future would be 
something that most people would think important. And I think if Mr and Mrs C knew 
this wasn’t guaranteed, they wouldn’t have decided to enter into any agreement with 
Business T. 
Ref: DRN8425726
10
c.
taking over Mr and Mrs C’s existing timeshare
Mr and Mrs C say that Business T told them it would take over their existing 
timeshare if they took out Club C membership – in fact they say they were told this 
was the only way of getting out of their existing timeshare. Mr and Mrs C say this was 
framed as a one-time offer and, if they wanted Business T to take over their 
timeshare, they had to sign up on the day. 
But Mr and Mrs C say Business T never took over their timeshare and they were still 
chased for maintenance fees. They say they were told by their timeshare provider 
that Business T had never made contact to take over or cancel the timeshare and 
that Mr and Mrs C could have given it up directly with their provider. Mr and Mrs C 
stopped paying their maintenance fees and their timeshare provider took their 
timeshare back without any further charge.
Again, I’ve seen nothing in writing showing what agreement there was between 
Business T and Mr and Mrs C about their existing timeshare. So I’ve looked at what 
evidence is available to work out what I think was most likely agreed.
On the same day that Mr and Mrs C signed the Club C membership application, 
Business T sent them a letter stating:
“Should you wish to use your week in Malta, in the next 36 months you may, 
and will thus be liable for the maintenance payment.
Should [Mr and Mrs C’s timeshare provider] cease to run their rental 
programme during this period, and you are unable to privately rent your week 
please provide [Business T] with proof of the above, along with that of 
payment for maintenance and a valid guest certificate and we will reimburse 
these fees.”
During the end of 2007 and into early 2008, there were several emails between Mr 
and Mrs C and Business T to get the “guest certificate” needed and the payment of 
the 2008 timeshare maintenance fees refunded. Mr and Mrs C explained that they 
needed more information from Business T – a set of dates to tell their timeshare 
provider – before a guest certificate could be issued. They pointed out that they 
weren’t able to do this, and it was Business T that was holding this up. 
On 5 February 2008, Business T emailed Mr and Mrs C:
“We need a copy of your maintenance bill and a copy of the proof of payment 
as stated on the letter from [Business T]…”
And Business T sent the following letter on 7 February 2008:
“Your file has been passed to me in order to process payment of your 2008 
maintenance fees.
At the time of Membership Application you were issued a letter by 
[Business T] stating the conditions that must be fulfilled to obtain this 
payment. You have not provided proof that you have been unable to rent your 
Ref: DRN8425726
11
weeks with [Mr and Mrs C’s timeshare provider] or privately, and until such 
proof is received re-payment cannot be made.
In addition we require a guest certificate(s) from [Mr and Mrs C’s timeshare 
provider] in order for us to be able to use your timeshare weeks/points.”
On the same day Mr and Mrs C sent a copy of their invoice and receipt for the 
maintenance fees. It’s not clear whether these fees were ever refunded.
From the detailed correspondence, I think it is clear Mr and Mrs C were under the 
impression that Business T was to arrange their release or take over their existing 
timeshare and pay the ongoing maintenance fees before that happened. And there’s 
nothing in the correspondence from Business T that contradicts that, rather 
Business T appear to be taking on responsibility to pay the fees if Mr and Mrs C 
provide certain details. This fits with what Mr and Mrs C say about Business T taking 
over their timeshare.
Mr and Mrs C’s agreement with Business T was an oral agreement and wasn’t set 
out in writing. But I think it was part of the overall package of things Business T 
agreed to supply for the payments set out above. I think there was a term that 
Business T would try to procure Mr and Mrs C’s release from their timeshare and that 
it would reimburse any fees that they had to pay before it closed or formally took over 
responsibility for the timeshare. I also don’t think there is any evidence to suggest 
that Business T did this.
But I also think that Mr and Mrs C were told this was the only way to get out of their 
existing timeshare. And, as detailed above, this wasn’t the case – they were able to 
get out of their timeshare without Business T’s assistance. So this was a 
misrepresentation made by Business T to try to get Mr and Mrs C to agree to take 
out the various agreements it was offering. Mr and Mrs C have told us that the main 
reason they bought anything from Business T was because they wanted to get out of 
their existing timeshare. Had they not been misled that they could only do this with 
Business T’s assistance, I don’t think they would have entered into any agreements 
with Business T. 
d.
Conclusion
I think Mr and Mrs C entered into an agreement with Business T for it to procure their 
release from their timeshare and management fee responsibilities and to procure 
Club C membership and cashback enrolment . And, at the same time, I think it acted 
as an agent for Club C and Business CB to arrange the Club C membership and 
enrol them in the cashback scheme. For this package of things, Mr and Mrs C paid a 
total, undivided sum of £7,509.66 to Business T. 
Based on what I’ve seen so far, I think it’s likely Business T misrepresented the 
benefits of the cashback scheme and the need to enter into an agreement at all to 
get out of their existing timeshare. I also think it’s likely Business T breached its 
contract with Mr and Mrs C to procure their release from the timeshare and take over 
the payment of management fees.
Ref: DRN8425726
12
It may be that Club C and Business CB breached their agreements with Mr and 
Mrs C too. But for the purposes of this decision, I propose to make no finding on 
those issues.
Are Creation jointly responsible for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, where a debtor has a claim against a 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like 
claim against the creditor. So here, Mrs C (the debtor) is asking Creation (the 
creditor) to answer her claim (on her and her husband’s behalf) for misrepresentation 
and breach of contract over the problems I’ve set out above.
But this doesn’t apply to every claim Mrs C may have. Creation are only responsible 
for claims where there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (“DCS”) agreement in place. This 
is set out more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be 
arrangements in place so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the 
credit card. In Mr and Mrs C’s case, Mrs C paid Business T directly, so it is not in 
dispute that Creation could be held jointly responsible for any claim of a breach of the 
contract with Business T or of a misrepresentation that led Mr and Mrs C into 
entering into an agreement with Business T.
But I don’t think Creation has to answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C or 
Business CB. That is because anything supplied by those businesses was outside of 
the arrangements between Mrs C, Business T and Creation. Under the CCA, it’s 
possible Creation would have to answer a claim if it could be shown either Club C or 
Business CB were ‘associates’ (s.184 and s.187 CCA). But nothing I have seen 
makes me think they were associates under the Act, nor are Business T mentioned 
as a linked company in the Petition referred to above. It follows I don’t think Creation 
needs to answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C or Business CB as there 
isn’t a DCS agreement in place.
I’ve also considered whether there is any misrepresentation claim based on anything 
Business T said that caused Mr and Mrs C to enter into an agreement with Club C or 
Business CB. As set out above, I didn’t find Business T made a misrepresentation 
about Club C membership, but I did think it likely misrepresented how the cashback 
scheme worked. It could be argued that things Business T said about the scheme 
were representations made on behalf of Business CB that could be looked at in any 
claim against Business CB for misrepresentation. But for the same reason as I think 
Creation doesn’t need to answer a claim for breach of contract against Business CB, 
I don’t think it needs to answer a claim for misrepresentation that induced Mr and Mrs 
C to enter into that agreement. 
But Mr and Mrs C did enter into an agreement with Business T directly as set out 
above. And I don’t think it is in dispute that there is the right sort of DCS relationship, 
so Creation could be jointly liable for any claim. So I think Creation could be jointly 
liable for the breach of contract if it’s found that Business T didn’t do anything with 
respect to Mr and Mrs C’s existing timeshare. 
I also note that everything sold to Mr and Mrs C was sold as a package – there’s no 
evidence that they could have got one thing without the other. So a representation 
about one part of the package could have induced them into buying the package as a 
whole. I think all of the representations made by Business T can be considered when 
Ref: DRN8425726
13
thinking about a claim for misrepresentation against Business T and, it follows, any 
like claim against Creation.
 
Has Creation properly considered the claims?
Creation has previously said it wouldn’t consider Mr and Mrs C’s breach of contract 
claims about the Club C membership and cashback as it didn’t think there were the 
right sort of relationship between it and Club C and Business CB. For the reasons set 
out above, I broadly agree with Creation and think it acted fairly.
But I do think it needed to assess Mr and Mrs C’s claim where there is the right type 
of DCS link with Business T. As Creation hasn’t done so, I will consider that part of 
the complaint now.
Mr and Mrs C have asked for a refund of what they paid to Business T. That is an 
outcome that normally follows a successful claim for misrepresentation. As set out 
above, I have found that there were two misrepresentations made to them, one that 
the cashback was guaranteed and one that the only way to get out of their existing 
timeshare was by instructing Business T to do that for them. For a claim to be 
successful, I’d have to find that these misrepresentations induced them to enter into 
the agreements, in other words that Mr and Mrs C wouldn’t have carried on with their 
purchases if they knew the full facts about what they were buying. 
Mr and Mrs C’s written agreement solely deals with Club C membership, so on the 
face of it this looks like that what the main purpose of the agreement. But I don’t think 
that was the case. Mr and Mrs C had an existing timeshare that they wished to 
relinquish, along with the annual service charges. They were told that they could 
achieve that by taking out a package that included Club C membership and an offer 
of cashback that covered the cost of Club C membership – in other words, they 
would have got what they wanted along with Club C membership at no net cost. I 
haven’t seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs C were interested in Club C membership 
on its own and I don’t think they would have bought the package if they knew that 
either they didn’t need it to get out of their existing timeshare or that the cashback 
wasn’t guaranteed. 
Taking the above into account, I think Creation should have upheld Mrs C’s claim if it 
had properly considered it.”
Mrs C and Creation both responded to say they had nothing further to add.
my findings
I’ve again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further they want me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision as set out above, I uphold this complaint 
and direct Creation to pay compensation to put Mrs C into the financial position she would 
be in now had she not entered into an agreement with Business T. So it should:
Ref: DRN8425726
14

Work out what Mrs C would owe on her credit card today, or at the date the card was 
closed if applicable, if she hadn’t paid anything to Business T on 13 September 2007. 
So it needs to remove the £2,180.66 paid, plus any interest charged on that sum. It 
should also remove any charges that were caused by the payment being made to 
Business T, as well as any interest added to those charges.
Creation should then pay Mrs C the difference between her credit card balance and 
what it would have been as worked out above.
If, when Creation works out what Mrs C would have owed without paying Business T, 
she paid more than she needed to because of the payments to Business T, Creation 
should also pay compensatory interest on the extra she paid. The interest rate is 8% 
per year simple from when the extra payment was made to the date of settlement.*

Pay Mrs C £5,329 that was paid to Business T by bank transfer on 25 October 2007, 
along with compensatory interest at the rate of 8% per year simple to the date of 
settlement.*

Refund the annual fees Mrs C paid CCC of £95 on 14 September 2009 and on 14 
April 2010, along with compensatory interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement*
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from any compensatory interest awarded 
and it should let Mrs C know how much tax has been deducted.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs C’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd and direct it pays 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425726
