K820x#14
Complaint
Mr K’s complaint is about the sofa he financed through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. He says it wasn’t as described. 
Background

M K entered into a loan agreement to buy a sofa in May 2018. He raised a claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S. 75) because he said the sofa wasn’t as 
described.

Mr K said that he chose to buy the sofa because it was advertised as having a hardwood 
frame and he intended to keep the sofa for a long time, reupholstering as necessary, and 
so wanted a hardwood frame for its durability. He said that when he was buying the sofa 
he checked with the sales agent that the frame was hardwood and this was confirmed. 

After a few months Mr K was concerned that the sofa’s frame wasn’t made of hardwood. 
He had an independent inspection carried out in April 2019. He said he asked for the 
inspector to confirm if the frame was made of hardwood. The inspection noted that 
certain parts were made of softwood and didn’t note any hardwood. Given this Mr K said 
the sofa wasn’t as described. He contacted the retailer and then raised a s.75 claim.  

Creation said that it contacted the retailer and it had confirmed that the frame was made 
from hardwood as had been described.

Mr K didn’t agree and brought his complaint to us.

After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.

Mr K doesn’t agree.
I’ll now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’ve decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 

Mr K made a s. 75 claim. S 75 allows, in certain circumstances, the borrower under a 
credit agreement to claim against the credit provider if there’s a breach of contract, or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Mr K said the sofa wasn’t as 
described. Therefore for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
the goods had been misrepresented or there had been a breach of contract. 

The sofa Mr K bought was advertised as having a hardwood frame and he has said 
that he confirmed this with the sales adviser. Mr K has said that the hardwood frame 
was important to him and that he wouldn’t have bought the sofa had he not thought 
the frame was hardwood. Based on the evidence I accept the sofa was advertised as 
having a hardwood frame and, given Mr K’s comments, I accept that this was an 
important feature that induced him into purchasing the sofa. Therefore, if the frame 
wasn’t made of hardwood, I would accept that a misrepresentation had occurred.

However, the retailer has confirmed that the frame is made of hardwood. It notes 
different types of wood are used elsewhere in the sofa to allow for greater flexibility 
but that ‘all load bearing sections are always made from hardwood so the most used 
areas are built with the strongest materials’. 
Ref: DRN8026478
2

Mr K had an independent inspection carried out. The inspection report didn’t state if 
the frame was hardwood but did note that the ‘spring rolls and all the stress points 
are made out of a softwood apart form the arms and caster block areas seem to be a 
composite of plywood and oriented strand board blocks’. 

While the inspection report doesn’t state what the frame is made off, I can 
understand why the outcome caused Mr K concern. Our investigator contacted the 
inspection company to get further information. It said that the furniture was well 
constructed and hardwood would be used in the key stress areas of the frame for 
strength and durability with other materials used elsewhere. It said that based on the 
photographs the other materials looked of good quality and durable.

Because the evidence provided in this complaint supports hardwood being used for 
the frame, I cannot say this has been misrepresented. The evidence provided 
suggests the sofa is of satisfactory quality and I have no evidence to suggest there 
has been any breach of contract. Because of this, I do not find that Creation did 
anything wrong by not upholding Mr K’s s.75 claim. 
For the reasons set out above, I do not find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8026478
