K821x#15
Complaint
Mr F is unhappy with the response from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), 
following his claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background
In April 2015, My Planet, a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems knocked 
on Mr F’s door. Following a meeting at his home with a salesperson, Mr F agreed to enter 
into a contract with My Planet for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about 
£10,000. To fund this he also agreed to enter into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
After the salesperson had left his home, Mr F called My Planet’s head office to cancel the 
solar panels. The following day the salesperson visited Mr F again to discuss why he had 
decided to cancel. At this point Mr F entered into a ‘buy now, pay later’ (‘BNPL’) agreement 
with Creation. This meant he had six months to repay the cost of the solar panels without 
incurring any interest. If he didn’t repay the amount within six months, he would then have to 
pay the amount borrowed, plus interest, over five years. Mr F said he tried to cancel the 
solar panel system before it was installed but was told by My Planet that he couldn’t. The 
solar panels were installed soon after.
In September 2015, Mr F made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA to Creation. He 
said that My Planet had told him that the solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the 
monthly loan payments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and 
savings generated. But that didn’t look like it would happen. Instead, his monthly loan 
repayments were due to be much higher than the FIT income and savings generated.
Whilst Creation looked into his complaint Mr F made one payment towards the loan and then 
fell behind with his repayments. The account has been in arrears since.
In February 2016 Creation sent its final response letter to Mr F’s complaint. It said didn’t 
uphold the complaint as it didn’t think the solar panels had been mis-sold. It asked Mr F to 
contact it to arrange a payment plan.
In May 2016 Mr F, via his representative wrote to Creation again explaining why he felt the 
solar panel system had been mis-sold, including whether the original loan was affordable. 
Creation referred back to its final response letter from February 2016.
As he remained unhappy, Mr F, via his representative, referred his complaint to this Service. 
Whilst this Service was looking into the complaint, Creation offered to reduce the loan 
balance by 40%. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She was satisfied that Mr F had 
decided to go ahead and purchase the solar panel system as he had been led to believe it 
would be ‘self-funded’. She also thought that the loan was affordable at the time it was taken 
out. But due to a change in Mr F’s personal circumstances, soon after the loan was taken 
out, he was unable to work. To put things right she thought Creation should arrive at a 
reasonable estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr F from the panels over the 
term of the loan and rework the loan such that he’d pay no more than that amount over the 
term. She also said that Creation should arrange a payment plan with Mr F to repay any 
outstanding balance.
Ref: DRN9228742
2
Creation didn’t agree with our investigators view. In summary, it said:

It wasn’t clear over what term Mr F was told that the solar panels would be ‘self-
funding’ and it thought the BNPL period should be taken into account.

There was no evidence that Mr F had wished to cancel the solar panels and 
associated loan agreement.
Mr F, via his representative, didn’t accept what our investigator had said. He raised some 
concerns that the solar panels were installed within 14 days of Mr F signing the contract and 
he therefore wasn’t able to exercise his rights to cancel them.
I wrote to Creation and Mr F, via his representative, before I reached my final decision. I 
explained that based on what I had reviewed in the file I was satisfied that Mr F had decided 
to purchase the solar panel system on the basis that it would be self-funding. And therefore I 
thought a fair resolution would be for Creation to work out the potential savings and income 
to Mr F from the panels over the five year term of the loan and rework the loan so that he 
pays no more than that amount over five years; and he would keep the solar panels.
I also thought Creation should pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused. This was 
because the Renewable Energy Consumer Code, which administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures its members comply with the Code, had determined that My 
Planet had breached a number of sections of the Code. And because of this I was satisfied 
that Creation should’ve taken this information, available in the public domain, into account 
when reviewing Mr F’s complaint. I was of the opinion that this supported Mr F’s claim 
against Creation and it should have upheld his complaint sooner than it did.
Creation wrote back. It accepted that it should make the panels self-funding. However, it 
thought the BNPL period should be included and proposed to make the panels self-funding 
over five and a half years. It also agreed to pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr F wrote back via his representative. He had nothing further to add.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Creation should take further steps to resolve this complaint.
Mr F has said he was approached by a salesperson from My Planet. And during the 
subsequent sales meeting he was told that the solar panel system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost to him. I haven’t seen anything to suggest that Mr F 
had shown a previous interest in solar panels before he was approached by My Planet. It is 
difficult to see why he would have agreed to the installation of the solar panels financed 
through a loan that would increase his monthly outgoings. Therefore, I think it’s unlikely that 
Mr F would’ve agreed to install the solar panel system and take a loan with Creation unless 
he was led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost to 
him.
Mr F said after the salesperson had left his home he contacted My Planet to cancel the 
contract. And after he did this the same salesperson came to his home to ask why he had 
decided to cancel the contract. During this second conversation Mr F has said he was 
Ref: DRN9228742
3
pressurised into taking out a BNPL finance agreement through Creation. This is supported 
by screenshots Creation has provided. They show that the original loan agreement, taken 
out on 15 April 2015 was cancelled and superseded by the BNPL agreement two days later. 
The solar panels were installed six days later and at this point Mr F signed a satisfaction 
note, giving Creation authority to release the funds to My Planet.
Mr F has said he tried to cancel the solar panels before they were fitted but My Planet told 
him that he was unable to. And his representative has said that as they were fitted within the 
14 days cooling off period, Mr F was denied the opportunity to exercise his legal rights and 
cancel the loan agreement.
I’ve thought carefully on this point. Section 67 of the CCA sets out that a consumer is entitled 
to cancel a regulated agreement. But it goes on to say that this section does not apply if 
Section 66A (‘s66A’) does. And in Mr F’s case s66A does. This section allows a consumer to 
withdraw from a credit agreement. By withdrawing from the loan agreement with Creation he 
still would have had his contract with My Planet to supply and install the solar panels. And 
Mr F would have had to have arranged another way to finance the solar panels. 
So Mr F didn’t have any rights to cancel the loan agreement, he could’ve only withdrawn 
from it. And he still would’ve been left with solar panels that he would have needed to pay 
for.
Mr F has said that he had concerns that the loan wasn’t affordable to him and this was one 
of the key reasons why he looked to cancel the solar panels. There is very little information 
available about how Mr F’s financial situation was assessed when applying for the loan. 
Creation’s records show that Mr F had an income of between £30,000 and £39,900 when 
the loan was taken out. Mr F disagrees with this and says his income was around £20,000. 
He has provided bank statements which support this.
At the time the loan was taken out Creation carried out a credit check on Mr F. The only 
information showing on here was a mortgage and a current account. Taking into account 
utility bills this meant Mr F had outgoings of around £500 a month. Based on an income of 
£20,000 this meant Mr F had a disposable income of around £900 a month, compared to 
loan repayments of £262 a month. So I’m satisfied that at the time the loan was taken out 
there wasn’t anything to suggest that the loan was unaffordable or that Mr F wouldn’t be able 
to meet his contractual monthly payments.
I’m of the opinion that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost 
to Mr F, the savings and income he would receive should have been sufficient to cover the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
To clarify, Mr F’s expected savings and incomes from the solar panels are from:
(1) generation income tariff,
(2) export tariff income, and;
(3) savings to Mr F by using the electricity generated by the panels instead of buying it 
from his energy provider.
Based on the figures I’ve seen the total expected return from the above three items, in the 
first year, would have come to £509 whereas the loan repayments were about £3,150 a 
year.
Ref: DRN9228742
4
Taking this into account Mr F was likely to be out of pocket by about £2,640 in the first year. 
And that would have broadly been the same during the term of the loan. This means that 
based on this estimate the solar panels weren’t self-funding. So I’m satisfied that My Planet 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr F.
Mr F didn’t have any prior experience of the solar panel system and he was approached by 
My Planet. I’m satisfied that Mr F decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar panel 
system based on the representations made by My Planet that the system would be self-
funding. 
For the reasons, I’ve explained above, I find that Mr F has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet. The system wasn’t self-funding and Mr F ended up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet, I find that it is responsible for Mr F’s loss.
My view of Mr F’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. Based on this I don’t think it would 
be fair or reasonable to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. And it is also 
accepted that it would cost Creation a significant sum to remove them from his home. So I 
don’t think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. Rather, I think the fair outcome 
here is to put Mr F in a position where the panels are self-funding over the original term of 
the loan. By allowing Mr F to keep the panels, he will likely benefit from lower electricity bills 
or FIT payments going forward.
In cases like this I would expect Creation to apply the methodology that is has agreed with 
our service. To confirm, its calculation should be based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr F’s solar panel system.
There will be a number of assumptions used when calculating the estimated future 
performance. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. Based on the Energy Savings 
Trust’s data I’m satisfied that this is reasonable. I think this as it would take into account 
changing consumer occupancy habits over the lifetime of the solar panel system and once 
the loan has been repaid Mr F will continue to likely benefit from the system via lower 
electricity bills or FIT payments.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions Creation has used such as the electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
they don’t seem unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example 
the actual average RPI for the last 4 years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure.
Creation has accepted this. Although it believes that the six month BNPL window should be 
taken into account when working out the original term of the loan. It has said this because Mr 
F would’ve been in receipt of savings and income from the solar panel system during this 
period and the BNPL in essence included a six months deferred payments.
I’ve taken on board Creation’s comments. And having done so, I remain of the view that the 
self-funding should be worked out over the five year term of the loan. I’ve looked at the loan 
agreement Mr F signed. This sets out the total amount payable in either a lump sum, 
payable within six months of the start of the agreement, or by making 60 monthly payments 
of £262.62. 
Ref: DRN9228742
5
Taking this into account the agreement that Mr F signed was for five year loan. I accept that 
he could have repaid the amount borrowed in the first six months without incurring any 
interest. But this isn’t what happened. And I can only base my decision on how to put things 
right based on what did happen, not what might have happened. 
I’ve also considered any ongoing maintenance costs for Mr F by keeping the solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar 
panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800. So I accept that 
Mr F could have some maintenance costs over the lifetime of the solar panels. I also accept 
that Mr F would likely have some benefit by way of savings and FIT income going forward.
It’s impossible to know what the extent of those costs and the benefits would actually be. 
However, based on the available information I think that the potential benefit should be 
adequate to offset any reasonable maintenance costs.
I remain of the view that Creation should pay Mr F £100 to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused. This is for the reasons I have explained above that I am satisfied that there was 
enough information in the public domain Creation should have taken into account when 
reviewing Mr F’s complaint. And if it had done this, it would have likely upheld his complaint 
sooner. 
In summary, to put things right Creation should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr F form the solar panels over the five year 
term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So normally, in a case like this, I think the fairest 
resolution would be to let a consumer have the following selection of options as to how they 
would like their overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
However, this isn’t the situation in Mr F’s complaint. I was sorry to hear of the change in his 
circumstances soon after the loan was taken out. And because of this Mr F has only been 
able to make one payment towards the outstanding balance of his loan. I’ve seen that 
Creation has made attempts to discuss this and agree a way forward with Mr F and his 
representatives but hasn’t been successful.
I therefore, think that Creation should recalculate the original loan as described above. 
Where possible it should use Mr F’s actual electricity bills and FIT statements. It should then 
work with Mr F and his representative to reach an affordable repayment moving forward. 
Ref: DRN9228742
6
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr F’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Mr F to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr F from the panels over the five year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr F’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) pay Mr F £100 for the trouble and upset caused; and 
(e) work with Mr F and his representative to agree an affordable repayment plan moving 
forward.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2019. 
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9228742
