K821x#15
complaint
Mrs H says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when she took out a loan in 2007.
background
In 2007, Mrs H bought an electrical item in a shop. She took out a loan to pay for the item 
over four years. At the same time, Creation sold her a PPI policy – the cost of this was 
added to the loan.
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ option which meant that Mrs H could pay off 
the loan, plus a small admin fee, in the first 12 months to avoid paying interest or paying for 
the PPI. Otherwise she’d pay interest on the loan, including interest charged on the PPI, 
over the remaining 48 month term. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs H’s complaint, because he didn’t think Creation had properly told 
Mrs H how much the policy would cost. Creation didn’t agree so the complaint’s been 
passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We’ve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I’ve taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs H’s case.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs H’s complaint because I agree with the 
adjudicator – I don’t think Creation gave Mrs H enough information about how much the PPI 
cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But it didn’t show the 
PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mrs H to work it out for 
herself. All the important information about the cost of the policy should’ve been in the 
loan agreement.

The statement of price did give a separate figure for the interest – but this was on the 
second page of the policy summary. I don’t think it was easy to find, or where Mrs H 
would expect it to be. I also can’t be sure it was drawn to her attention; particularly when 
she was in a shop and her attention was on buying an electrical item, not on buying 
insurance. 

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the PPI. This would’ve been good 
practice and could’ve helped Mrs H understand what the policy was costing her.  

The information in the credit agreement also wasn’t enough to make Mrs H aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If she didn’t pay 
the loan off during the first 12 months then the whole loan, including the PPI cost, 
attracted interest just over 32%. This meant she’d pay a substantial extra amount of 
interest on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit was ‘free’ life cover. 
Ref: DRN9111055
2

The PPI interest shown in the statement of price was nearly the same as the single 
premium for the policy. And the total policy cost was also high compared to the amount 
Mrs H was borrowing to buy the electrical item. This was unusual – and I think Mrs H 
would’ve seen this as important information when deciding whether to buy the policy. 
Especially as she was borrowing a fairly modest amount and her monthly payments 
(including the PPI) were less than £30.

Creation says Mrs H could have cancelled the policy after signing. But she was entitled 
to be told the important information she needed to know before she signed. I don’t think 
the fact Mrs H didn’t cancel the policy afterwards means she was happy with it. Or that 
she understood what it was really costing her.
Given her circumstances, I don’t think Mrs H would’ve bought the policy if Creation had done 
everything it should have during the sale. So I uphold this complaint. 
what Creation should do to put things right
I understand the loan and PPI have now ended. But Mrs H borrowed extra to pay for the 
PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should’ve been and she paid more than she should’ve 
each month. Mrs H now needs to get back the extra she’s paid. So Creation should:

work out and pay Mrs H the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would’ve paid each month without PPI.

add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs H paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy Creation can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and so Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay Mrs H the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2016.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9111055
