K822x
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974. He also 
complains about charges that have been added to his loan agreement due to late payments.
Background 
In August 2014, My Planet, a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems cold 
called Mr S. Following a meeting at his home with a salesperson, Mr S decided to enter into 
a contract with My Planet for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around 
£7,800. To fund this he also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation. The solar panels were installed soon after.
In December 2016, Mr S made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA to Creation, via 
his representative. The representative said that My Planet had told Mr S that the solar 
panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than 
offset by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, Mr S’s monthly 
loan repayments had been much higher.
Creation looked into the concerns. It wrote back to Mr S, via his representative in March 
2017. It didn’t agree that the solar panels had been misrepresented. But, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered to reduce the loan agreement and the associated interest by 40%. 
Mr S didn’t accept this and referred his complaint to this Service. While one of our 
investigators was looking into Mr S’s complaint he also raised a further concern as he had 
been receiving up to four calls a day from Creation regarding outstanding arrears on his 
account. Mr S disputed that he was in arrears as he had always made his contractual 
monthly loan repayments and he felt the number of calls excessive. In response to this 
Creation said that Mr S’s payments hadn’t always reached his account when they were due 
and maintained they had been applied correctly.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She upheld the complaint in part. 
In summary she said:

Mr S’s complaint wasn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but that they had 
been misrepresented as self-funding. To put things right Creation should work out the 
potential savings and income to Mr S over the 10 year term of the loan. It should then 
rework the loan so that he would pay no more than that amount over that term and 
refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest.

Although Mr S wasn’t in arrears he hadn’t always made his monthly contractual 
payments by the time they were required. She was satisfied that the charges and 
interest, accruing from the charges, had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement. She acknowledged that Creation had refunded 
some charges in the past as a gesture of goodwill but that this didn’t mean the 
outstanding charges and associated interest should be waived.

Creation used an automated dialling system to call its customers about arrears on 
accounts. And as it had input Mr S’s home number in under the mobile number 
section as well, he was receiving twice the amount of calls that he should. And as Mr 
S had told Creation that he didn’t want it to call him it should have written to him from 
this point. To recognise the trouble and upset this had caused she recommended 
Creation pay £250.
Ref: DRN9753455
2
Creation accepted what our investigator had said in full.
Mr S, via his representative, accepted the £250 trouble and upset payment and this has 
already been paid. He also accepted the proposal to make the solar panels self-funding over 
the term of the loan.
He didn’t accept that the charges should’ve been added to his account and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached similar conclusions to those of our investigator. I’ll explain why.
self-funding offer
Both parties have agreed with the investigators view that to put things right Creation should 
work out the potential savings to Mr S over the 10 year term of the loan. And it should then 
rework the loan so that Mr S would pay no more than that amount over the 10 year term and 
refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest. I’ve considered whether this is fair, taking 
into account the assumptions and methodology that Creation will use to calculate this 
approach. 
Mr S says he was approached by My Planet and during a sales meeting was told that the 
installation would be entirely self-financing. I haven’t seen anything to suggest that he’d 
shown a previous interest in solar panels before he was approached by My Planet. It’s 
difficult to see why Mr S would agree to the installation of the solar panels financed through 
a loan that would increase his monthly outgoings. I therefore think it’s unlikely that Mr S 
would’ve agreed to install the solar panels and take a loan with Creation unless he was led 
to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost to him.
I’ve also considered the action taken by Renewable Energy Consumer Code (‘RECC’) 
against My Planet. My understanding is that RECC administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated My Planet’s conduct in September 2014 and determined that My 
Planet was in breach of Section 5.2 and Section 5.4 of the Code. These relate to requiring 
members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear 
and accurate information about the costs and benefits of the product.  
I accept that what happened in respect of the cases RECC looked into may not have 
necessarily have happened in Mr S’s case. Whilst the RECC findings are general and do not 
refer to Mr S’s case, the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas 
that related to Mr S’s complaint and at around the time he was sold the solar panels and 
loan.
Taking the above into account, I believe that it is more likely than not that the salesperson for 
My Planet led Mr S to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding.
Ref: DRN9753455
3
I’m of the opinion that for the solar panels to be self-funding and come at no additional cost 
to Mr S, the savings and income he would receive should have been sufficient to cover the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
To clarify, Mr S’s expected savings and incomes from the solar panels are from:
(1) generation income tariff,
(2) export tariff income, and;
(3) savings to Mr S by using the electricity generated by the panels instead of buying it 
from his energy provider.
Based on the figures I’ve seen the total expected return from the above three items, in the 
first year, would have come to around £700 whereas the loan repayments were about 
£1,222 a year.
Taking this into account Mr S was likely to be out of pocket by about £522 in the first year. 
And that would have broadly been the same during the term of the loan. This means that 
based on this estimate the solar panels weren’t self-funding. So I’m satisfied that My Planet 
misrepresented the benefits to Mr S.
Mr S didn’t have any prior experience of the solar panel system and he was approached by 
My Planet. I’m satisfied that Mr S decided to go ahead with the purchase of the solar panel 
system based on the representations made by My Planet that the system would be self-
funding. 
For the reasons, I’ve explained above, I find that Mr S has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet. The system wasn’t self-funding and Mr S ended up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability or the 
misrepresentation made by My Planet, I find that it is responsible for Mr S’s loss.
My view of Mr S’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that he was led to believe that they would be self-funding. Based on this I don’t think it would 
be fair or reasonable to require the removal of the solar panels from his home. And it is also 
accepted that it would cost Creation a significant sum to remove them from his home. So I 
don’t think it would be fair or reasonable to ask it to do that. Rather, I’m satisfied that the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr S in a position where the panels are self-funding over the original 
term of the loan. By allowing Mr S to keep the panels, he will likely benefit from lower 
electricity bills of FIT payments going forward.
In cases like this I would expect Creation to apply the methodology that is has agreed with 
our service. To confirm its calculation should be based on the actual performance and 
estimated future performance of Mr S’s solar panel system.
There will be a number of assumptions used when calculating the estimated future 
performance. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. Based on the Energy Savings 
Trust’s data I’m satisfied that this is reasonable. I think this as it would take into account 
changing consumer occupancy habits over the lifetime of the solar panel system and once 
the loan has been repaid Mr S will continue to likely benefit from the system via lower 
electricity bills or FIT payments.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions Creation has used such as the electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that 
Ref: DRN9753455
4
they don’t seem unreasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example 
the actual average RPI for the last 4 years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure.
I’ve also considered any ongoing maintenance costs for Mr S by keeping the solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar 
panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the panels at a current cost of about £800. So I accept that 
Mr S could have some maintenance costs over the lifetime of the solar panels. I also accept 
that Mr S would likely have some benefit by way of savings and FIT income going forward.
It’s impossible to know what the extent of those costs and the benefits would actually be. 
However, based on the available information I think that the potential benefit should be 
adequate to offset any reasonable maintenance costs.
In summary, to put things right Creation should recalculate the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels over the ten year 
term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system. 
By recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, meaning that 
he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an overpayment 
balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment I would 
expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to let a consumer have 
the following selection of options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to the consumer and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
I also think Creation should pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused. This is because 
the Renewable Energy Consumer Code, which administers the renewable energy consumer 
Code and ensures its members comply with the Code, had determined that My Planet had 
breached a number of sections of the Code. And because of this I’m satisfied that Creation 
should’ve taken this information, available in the public domain, into account when reviewing 
Mr S’s complaint. I’m of the opinion that this supports Mr S’s claim against Creation and it 
should have upheld his complaint sooner than it did.
charges
Mr S currently has charges of around £70 outstanding on his credit agreement. This is made 
up of a late payment fee, a fee for sending Mr S an arrears letter and interest that has 
accrued on the charges as they haven’t been paid.
I’ve considered the credit agreement Mr S signed when he decided to go ahead with the 
purchase of the solar panels. This sets out the charges that could be added to Mr S’s 
account and explains when they will be charged. Having reviewed the statements for the 
Ref: DRN9753455
5
account, I can see that the charges have been applied in line with the terms and conditions 
and I can’t conclude that they have been applied incorrectly.
I accept that Mr S has made a payment each month but the payments need to be made and 
have reached his account by the 18th of each month. And this hasn’t always been the case. I 
understand that Mr S changed to paying by standing order but he still needed to ensure that 
his monthly payment was with Creation by the 18th of each month. I’ve noted that this date 
has now changed to the 26th of each month and Mr S hasn’t incurred any further charges.
On previous occasions Creation has refunded late payment charges and hasn’t always 
charged him when he has been a day or two late and has refunded previous charges as a 
gesture of goodwill. But as I’ve explained above the charges have been applied to the 
account in line with the terms and conditions, which were set out, and that Mr S agreed to. 
Therefore, I’m satisfied they have been added to the account correctly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr S’s complaint should be upheld in part. In full and final settlement 
of it, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Mr S to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr S from the panels over the ten year 
term of the loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr S’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement,
(d) allow Mr S to decide, using the four options given above, how his overpayments 
should be used; and
(e) pay Mr S £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9753455
