K821x#9
complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has not acted positively and 
sympathetically towards her, after she experienced financial difficulties in repaying her debt. 
Mrs K complains that Creation has continued to add significant interest to her account and 
she is unable to reduce her debt.
background
Mrs K began to experience financial difficulties in 2006 and her account with Creation went 
into arrears. Mrs K asked a credit counselling service for help and a repayment plan was 
agreed, at a modest amount per month. Creation froze interest and charges on the account 
for two years, until late 2008.  
Mrs K’s financial difficulties were continuing and she maintained the agreed payments. But, 
she was not reducing her debt by any meaningful amount, because of the interest being 
added. In 2012 the interest rate applied to the account increased and Mrs K was in the 
position where her monthly repayments did not cover the interest being added. A new 
repayment plan was agreed and Mrs K is paying more to cover this interest increase.
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
Creation had not acted positively or sympathetically towards Mrs K and had not taken 
sufficient practical steps to help Mrs K manage her debt. She considered that the level of 
interest added to the account meant that the debt was never going to be significantly 
reduced. She recommended that Creation refund all interest applied to the account since 
late 2008, freeze all further interest and agree an affordable repayment plan until the debt is 
cleared.
Creation did not agree with the adjudicator’s conclusions and responded to say, in summary, 
that it had acted positively and sympathetically by agreeing a repayment plan to reduce the 
monthly payments and applying a reduced interest rate. 
 
my findings
I have considered everything that Mrs K and Creation have said and provided, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator for broadly similar reasons.
When Mrs K first explained about her financial difficulties, interest was frozen on the account 
for two years. Although Mrs K was still having financial difficulties, interest was re-instated. It 
does not appear from the evidence I have seen, that Creation explored with Mrs K whether 
this was appropriate.
In 2012, interest was increased and Mrs K had to increase her monthly repayment. Creation 
has said that customers are told to get in touch, to arrange a new repayment plan, and Mrs 
K did not do so. I do not consider that this is enough. Creation was aware that Mrs K was in 
financial difficulties and should have done more to assist her.
Creation has continued to add interest to the account, at an amount which effectively 
perpetuates the debt. Despite making the agreed monthly repayments, Mrs K has reduced 
her debt by only £20.67 in the last four years. I consider that Creation has not treated Mrs K 
Ref: DRN9394136
2
positively and sympathetically and the steps it has taken have not helped Mrs K manage her 
debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:
1.
Refund all interest added to the account since December 2008.
2.
Freeze all further interest on the account.
3.
Agree an affordable repayment plan, until the outstanding balance is cleared.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9394136
