K821x#14
complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (‘PPI’) policy. 
background
In 2007 Mr H bought an electrical good in a shop and took out a £523.96 loan to pay for it. At 
the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £275.01 and was added to the 
loan. 
The loan had a 12 month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr H wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before a date that was set out on the agreement. Otherwise he would pay interest 
(including £338.02 of interest on the policy) over the remaining 48 months of the loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr H’s complaint. They didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And they didn’t think Mr H would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. 
Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr H was given would 
have made him aware of what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr H’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr H how much the policy cost. I say this because:
•
The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the total cost 
included a warranty Mr H bought at the same time.  And the credit agreement didn’t 
show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to expect Mr H to 
work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the important information 
about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.
•
The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr H would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying an electrical item – not on buying insurance.
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr H to understand what the policy was costing 
him.  
•
The information in the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr H aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 32.4%. This meant Mr H would pay a substantial extra amount of 
Ref: DRN9161525
2
interest on the PPI cost in the first year; when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.  
•
The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr H was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr H would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy. Especially as he was borrowing quite a modest amount over a fairly short 
term. 
•
I don’t think Mr H would have bought the policy if he‘d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons, I uphold Mr H’s complaint.
fair compensation 
Mr H should be put back in the position he would now be in if he’d taken out the loan without 
the PPI policy. I understand the loan and the policy ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mr H because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mr H had taken out the 
loan without PPI;
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mr H actually paid, and paying him the 
difference; and
•
paying Mr H simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B.
Write to Mr H setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mr H needs to take any further action will depend on his financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mr H should refer back to Creation if he’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mr H and 
Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H’s complaint. And Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should pay Mr H fair compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9161525
