K821x#12
complaint
Mr T complains about a car bought with a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
(“CCFL”). He says that the car was not fit for purpose. He brings this complaint under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr T bought a car with a loan from CCFL in November 2011. Within five days of purchase he 
complained to the dealership about the car juddering. The dealership supplied new spark 
plugs and coil packs to repair the fault, but Mr T continued to complain about the juddering 
and the car was returned for investigation into the juddering and repair in February, March, 
October and November 2012, and again in June 2013 and January 2014. The dealership 
believed that the juddering had been fixed by the repairs in March 2012, and that the 
juddering experienced in October 2012 onwards was due to a different fault which was not 
present at the point of sale.
An independent inspection report obtained by CCFL in January 2014 concluded that there 
was a slight “tizzing” for two seconds after starting the car from cold, but this was acceptable 
given the age and mileage of the car. It also said that the fault was not present at point of 
sale. 
Mr T disagreed with the report and said that the juddering lasted about 20 seconds. He 
asked an engineer who was employed by a dealer for his make of car, to inspect the car in 
January 2014. The engineer suggested that the juddering was due to an issue with the 
cylinders which he would not normally expect to see in a car of this age and mileage, and 
suggested a new engine was likely to be required. He could not say without further 
investigation whether the issue was present at point of sale. 
The independent inspector did not agree that a replacement engine was required. He said 
that if there was an issue with the cylinders at the point of sale, he would have expected their 
condition to have deteriorated so that it became apparent, given the mileage covered by
Mr T. But he also suggested further investigation.
Mr T has lost faith in the car and the dealership, and wishes to reject the car and cancel the 
finance and obtain a refund of all his payments. 
The adjudicator noted that CCFL maintained that the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. But, based on all the evidence she had received, she considered it was more 
likely that there was an issue with the car at the time of purchase, and that it was not of 
satisfactory quality. She recommended that CCFL should:-
 - Allow Mr T to reject the car. It should then be collected at no cost to him.
 - Refund any cash deposit paid. It appeared this was £200.
 - Remove any remaining loan balance, including interest, associated with the purchase of 
the vehicle. But Mr T would still be liable to repay the negative equity amount of £4,169.13 
from a previous loan. CCFL should also liaise with Mr T to agree a repayment plan for this 
sum.
 - Update the credit reference agencies accordingly.
 - Refund Mr T for the diagnostic checks he had arranged.
Ref: DRN9264156
2
 - Refund 10% of any instalments paid by Mr T as he has had some loss of use and loss of 
enjoyment from the car.
All refunds should include interest of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
CCFL disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that a slight vibration was a normal 
occurrence for the car’s engine type and that the car would have already failed if there was 
an inherent fault in view of the mileage driven.
Mr T disagreed and said that the return of the £200 deposit and the refund of 10% of the 
loan payment was not sufficient to compensate him for his inconvenience and time spent on 
the matter.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see that the juddering problems arose in the car very soon after purchase and that they 
have continued. Mr T has had to return the car to be investigated and/or repaired on 
numerous occasions and has suffered inconvenience as a result. But I can see that he has 
otherwise been able to use the car and has driven over 22,000 miles in it.
The dealership believed that its repairs in March 2012 rectified the juddering as Mr T did not 
complain about the juddering again until some seven months later. I note that CCFL 
considers that the later juddering was due to a different cause which was not present at the 
point of sale.
I also note that Mr T’s engineer, a specialist for Mr T’s make of car, said in both June 2013 
and January 2014 that there were problems with the cylinders , albeit different ones, and on 
both occasions suggested that a new engine would be required. There was also low 
compression in January 2014. I can also see that there was a problem with one of the 
cylinders and inconsistences with compression in October 2012. A stripping down of the 
engine to investigate the cause of the problem was recommended in June 2013, but never 
carried out.
The opinions of both independent engineers differ, but both have recommended further 
investigation to ascertain whether the fault was present at point of sale. 
CCFL said that slight vibration was normal for the type of the engine in the car, but I note 
that the dealership referred to severe vibration in its letter dated late June 2013.
In the absence of conclusive evidence that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
sale, I have taken other evidence into account. In particular I note that the engine has never 
been stripped down to investigate the fault, as had been recommended. I also note the five 
occasions that it was necessary for Mr T to take his car back for investigation and/or repairs 
Ref: DRN9264156
3
due to the juddering within four months of purchase. And then the same fault became 
apparent seven months later, and again in 2013 and 2014. 
I also note that Mr T did not feel safe in the car and I can also see that he had lost 
confidence in the dealership after it had failed to remedy the juddering following at least eight 
repair attempts.
Like the adjudicator and, on balance, I consider it more likely than not that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. It is clear that Mr T lacks confidence in both the car and 
the dealership’s ability to repair the car due to its previous repair history. So, I am satisfied 
that it is fair and reasonable that Mr T should be permitted to cancel the loan agreement and 
return the car. 
I note that Mr T has driven over 22,000 miles in the car and the faults have limited his 
enjoyment of it. But, I agree with the adjudicator that a refund of his deposit and 10% of each 
monthly instalment to take account of Mr T’s loss of use and enjoyment is reasonable in the 
circumstances. I also agree with the other elements of the redress recommend by the 
adjudicator. 
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:-
1.
Arrange for the collection of the car and cancel the remaining finance at no additional 
cost to Mr T. But Mr T is still liable to repay the negative equity amount of £4,169.13 
from a previous loan. CCFL should liaise with Mr T to agree a repayment plan for this 
sum.
2.
Refund Mr T’s deposit of £200 in full. Interest should be calculated on this amount at 
8% simple per annum from the date of Mr T’s deposit payment to the date of 
settlement;
3.
Refund 10% of each monthly instalment that Mr T has paid under the loan 
agreement. Interest should be calculated on these amounts at 8% simple per annum 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement; 
4.
Refund the cost of any diagnostic reports paid by Mr T upon presentation of a 
receipt; and
5.
Remove the information about the November 2011 loan agreement from Mr T’s credit 
file. 
If CCFL considers that tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it 
should provide Mr T with the appropriate tax deduction certificate so that he is able to claim 
a refund, if appropriate.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9264156
