K820x#14
complaint
Ms C complains that it was unfair for Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to expect her to pay 
the interest on a loan.
background
In 2014 Ms C took the loan out to buy some furniture. She paid a deposit, and then the loan 
agreement gave her two choices about paying the balance. She could either make monthly 
payments for three years starting in March 2015. In that case she would pay a total of over 
£10,000 (including interest) in further payments. Or (as a special offer) she could simply 
make one payment of £5,437 by 23 February 2015, thus not paying any interest at all. The 
business which had sold the furniture had arranged for an upholsterer to visit in March 2015 
to deal with concerns Ms C had about it. On 21 February Ms C rang Creation to ask how 
much interest would be payable if she did not pay until March (after the upholsterer’s visit). 
She was dissatisfied when told it was the full amount of interest and asked to escalate 
matters. She says she asked for a call back before the payment date. But the call back did 
not happen until 24 February, when she was told she now needed to pay all the interest. She 
does not think that is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. After she complained, Creation 
said that the decision about the interest could not be changed, but it gave her a figure to 
settle the loan at that point.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint was upheld. He said that Creation 
had always clearly and consistently said the agreement must be settled by 23 February 2015 
for the interest to be waived. It had said that in the agreement, a reminder letter sent in 
January 2015 and when Ms C rang in February 2015. Although Creation’s usual timescale 
for a call back was 24 hours, he did not think the delay had been unreasonable.
Ms C disagreed. She said that, if Creation had called her back before the due date, she 
would have paid the lump sum to avoid paying interest. She suggested that Creation had 
deliberately delayed calling her so she would be liable for the interest. She should not be 
penalised by having to pay the interest because of Creation’s poor customer service. She 
indicated that she might wish to pursue a court claim against Creation if her complaint was 
not upheld.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that it would be annoying for Ms C to have to wait longer than expected for a call 
back. But in the original call on 21 February she had already been given a reasonable 
answer to her query – that she would need to pay all the interest if she did not pay in full by 
23 February. I appreciate that she was hoping for a different answer so asked for a call back 
to escalate matters: but Creation had already stated its position, which was justified. I can 
understand why Ms C might have preferred to wait until the issue with the furniture was 
resolved, but Creation was entitled to expect her to stick to the terms of the agreement.   
Although Creation should have rung back sooner, when there was a significant amount extra 
to pay if she waited until after 23 February, I might have expected Ms C to ring Creation 
again on 22 or 23 February to pursue matters: but I have seen nothing to suggest that she 
did. I do not think Ms C could reasonably rely on Creation changing its position and agreeing 
Ref: DRN9347987
2
to allow her to wait longer to pay in full - either because of the issue with the furniture or 
because of the delay in the call back. 
Overall I cannot see that the delayed call back, or the other circumstances, provide grounds 
for me to say that Creation should not expect Ms C to pay interest in line with the terms of 
the agreement. I know that will disappoint Ms C, but she does not have to accept my 
decision. It is open to her to pursue matters in court instead if she wishes.
my final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2016.
Hilary Bainbridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9347987
