K820x#14
complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not give him a refund and cancel 
his finance agreement.  He brings this complaint through his representative – T.
For ease, I will refer to all submissions as if made by Mr H direct.
background
In July 2013, Mr H entered into an agreement to have solar panels fitted to his property.  He 
says he was told that the system would be self-funding and that his savings could be used to 
pay off his finance sooner if he chose to do so.
But Mr H says that his savings have not been as he expected and so he complained to 
Creation.  He said that the level of savings had been misrepresented to him.  To rectify the 
situation, he wanted to cancel the finance agreement, have the panels removed and be 
refunded for all payments he had already made.
His complaint was rejected so he brought it to this service.
Our adjudicator didn’t think she could ask Creation to do as Mr H was requesting and so he 
asked for an ombudsman’s decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H paid for the panels using a loan.  Because of the way he paid, in some circumstances 
he could be protected by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And that could mean 
he was entitled to a refund. This is because Section 75 says that Creation is responsible for 
any incorrect information that the supplier gave to him - provided this information is what 
made him agree to have the panels installed and take out the loan. 
So, I need to decide whether this is what happened in Mr H’s case.
I am afraid that based on what I have seen, I cannot be satisfied that he was given incorrect 
information.  I say that because I have only seen very few documents from the meeting 
which Mr H had with the sales person.  Our adjudicator did request further information from 
him – such as bills to show what his energy usage was before and after the solar panels had 
been fitted – but I am afraid nothing transpired.
And when an ombudsman’s decision was requested on behalf of Mr H, I note that no further 
submissions were received on his behalf.
In the circumstances, I cannot uphold Mr H’s complaint and so, I will not be asking Creation 
to terminate its finance agreement with him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN9934546
2
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2016.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9934546
