K821x#15
complaint
Mr L complains that the car he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (the business) was not of satisfactory quality. He has had repairs 
carried out and wants the cost of these refunded.
background
Mr L entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with business to acquire a car in March 2016. 
At this time the car was eight years old and had been driven 57,500 miles.
Mr L says that the brakes were an issue on the test drive but he thought this could be due to 
the car having been stood at the dealers. However the issue did not go. In May 2016, the 
brakes needed to be repaired and Mr L paid for this. The dealer gave him £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill towards the cost but Mr L says that he shouldn’t have had to pay anything for this 
repair because the issue was present at the point of sale. When the brakes were being 
repaired it was discovered that the locking wheel nut was damaged and needed to be 
replaced along with the keys. Mr L says this cost should also be covered by the dealer.
In June, Mr L reported an issue with the air conditioning. He was told to take it to the dealer 
but they didn’t deal with air conditioning so he was told to take it to another garage. The 
issue was resolved at no cost to Mr L but he says that he was without the car for six days.
After the air conditioning issue had been resolved, Mr L says the bonnet would not open. He 
contacted the business about his complaint at this stage. He says he was told to have the 
repair to the bonnet carried out and then submit the invoice. He did this and wants this 
amount reimbursed. Because of the issues Mr L experienced he says he arranged and paid 
for a safety check.
The business says that it contacted the broker which said that because repairs were carried 
out without its authorisation it would not take any further action. It says that because of this it 
did not uphold this complaint.
The dealer says that when Mr L acquired the car it had a new MOT and that there were no 
advisories. It says that although the issue with the brakes was a wear and tear item it gave 
Mr L £50 as a gesture of goodwill towards the repair cost. In June when the issue with the air 
conditioning was reported it says this again was a wear and tear but it arranged for the car to 
go to a specialist for the issue to be resolved at no cost to Mr L. 
The dealer notes that the issue with the bonnet occurred while the car was having the air 
conditioning dealt with. It says that this Mr L should address this issue to the garage that 
caused it.
The adjudicator upheld this complaint. She said that it wasn’t fair to expect Mr L to know that 
he needed to speak to the business before having repairs carried out. She said that it wasn’t 
fair to expect the business to refund Mr L the cost of the MOT but she did find that it should 
refund the cost of the repairs.
The business did not accept that it should pay for the repairs. It said that Mr L did not raise 
the issues with it or the supplier or broker before having the repairs carried out.
Ref: DRN9457043
2
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L’s complaint relates to the costs he has had to pay to repair his car in the first few 
months after acquisition. 
Mr L acquired a used car in mid March 2016. At this time the car was eight years old and 
had been driven 57,500 miles. Because Mr L financed the acquisition with a loan agreement 
from the business, the business is liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. When assessing satisfactory quality the age and mileage of the car are taken into 
account.
The first issue related to the brakes. Mr L says that this issue was noticeable on the test 
drive but he and the dealer believed it would resolve itself once the car had been driven for a 
while (it had been standing at the dealers). However when the issue did not go away Mr L 
took the car for repair. 
I have looked at the car’s MOT history and can see the MOT was carried out in November 
2015. I note that no issues were raised and that the car was not driven more than a few 
miles between that date and when Mr L acquired it. I accept that issues with the brakes are 
generally considered wear and tear; however I note Mr L’s comments about the issue being 
present on the test drive. Therefore, I find it reasonable in this case to accept that it was 
more likely than not that the issue was present at the point of sale. I also find that the issue 
with the locking wheel nut would have been noted had the repair been carried out before Mr 
L took delivery of the car. Because of this I find it reasonable that Mr L is refunded the cost 
of this repair less the £50 that the dealer paid.
Mr L then experienced an issue with the air conditioning. Mr L says that the dealer first sent 
him to the wrong garage and then he went to a specialist garage and the air conditioning 
was topped up. I accept that the need to top up air conditioning units would not be 
considered a fault. However Mr L says that this did not resolve the issue and the car had to 
be returned. Mr L has mentioned a leak in the condenser and it is clear given the need to 
return the car more than once that the issue was not just the air conditioning needing topping 
up. This all happened within the first six months. I do not have further information on this 
issue but there is nothing to show that the problems were not caused by a fault that was 
present at the point of sale. 
This issue was resolved at no cost to Mr L which is reasonable. However while this repair 
took place the bonnet latch was damaged. Mr L says that he contacted the business about 
this and was told to go ahead with the repair and submit his invoice. I have listened to the 
call and Mr L was told to go ahead with the repair. However the business did explain that 
only once the complaint had been fully investigated would they be able to decide whether 
they would refund the cost or not. 
Because the damage was caused while Mr L’s car was being repaired for another issue that 
was identified within the first six months, and the repair was arranged by the dealer, I find the 
fair resolution is for the cost of this repair to be refunded.
Ref: DRN9457043
3
I understand why Mr L decided to have a health check carried out on the car. However this 
was his choice and I do not find it reasonable that the business is required to cover the cost 
of this.
The business says that Mr L did not contact the correct people before repairs were 
undertaken. However based on the information I have seen I find that Mr L did make 
reasonable attempts to contact the relevant parties as he saw fit in regard to issues he 
experienced. Because of this I find it reasonable that the repairs he paid for are refunded.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
refund Mr L for the repairs he paid for less the £50 already paid. This comes to a total of 
£318.36.
For the avoidance of doubt I do not require the cost of the MOT or vehicle health check to be 
refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2017.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9457043
