K821x#15
Complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), following 
her claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background
Ms B and her ex-husband were contacted by a company, I’ll refer to them as “G”, that 
supplied and installed solar panel systems. Following a meeting, they agreed to enter into a 
contract with G for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing about £7,000. To fund 
this Ms B also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Ms B made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. She said that G had told her that the 
solar panels would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would be more 
than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income and savings generated. But that hadn’t 
happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than the income. 
Since the solar panels had been installed Ms B had divorced and paid G to remove the solar 
panels from her previous home. G are currently storing them for her for no charge. G had 
agreed that it would install the solar panels on a new property but as Ms B was renting, she 
was unable to have them reinstalled.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented. Unhappy with this response, Ms B referred the complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He felt the benefits of the solar 
panel system had been misrepresented. He recommended Creation:

unwind the loan agreement,

refund Ms B any payments she’d made towards the loan agreement minus any 
benefits she’d received from when the panels were fitted,

add 8% simple interest to any payments Ms B had made from date of payment to 
date of settlement,

remove any record of the loan agreement from Ms B’s credit file,

refund the amount Ms B paid G to have the panels removed from her previous home, 
and;

add 8% simple interest to the above amount from date of payment to date of 
settlement.
Creation didn’t accept our investigator’s view. In summary it said:

it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panel system had been misrepresented to Ms 
B, and

it was Ms B’s choice to have the solar panels removed from her previous home.
Ms B didn’t respond to the investigator’s view.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN9221681
2
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 (‘s56’) and s75 of the CCA, which provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.”
As Ms B paid for the solar panels with a fixed sum loan, Creation agrees that s75 applies to 
this transaction. This means that Ms B could claim against Creation – the creditor – for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by G in the same way she could have claimed 
against G, the supplier. I’ve taken s75 into account when deciding what’s fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant as it says that any negotiations between Ms B and G as the supplier are 
deemed to have been conducted by G as an agent of Creation.
Ms B says she and her ex-husband were cold called and during a sales meeting told that the 
installation would be entirely self-financing. I haven’t seen anything to show that she’d shown 
a previous interest in solar panels before she was approached by G. It is difficult to see why 
Ms B would’ve agreed to the installation of the solar panels, financed through a loan that 
would’ve increased her monthly outgoings. I therefore think it is unlikely that Ms B would’ve 
agreed to install the solar panel system and take out a loan with Creation unless she had 
been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional cost to her.
I’ve considered the paperwork that was given to Ms B when she agreed to the installation of 
the solar panels. One of the documents that had been provided appears to be a personal 
illustration for Ms B. It lists the expected annual benefits to Ms B from the FIT and electricity 
savings to be around £990. The same document also shows a lifetime benefit of 
approximately £50,000 over 20 years again made up of FIT and electricity bill savings. There 
is also a graph to show when the solar panel system would’ve provided enough benefit to 
offset their cost. This shows a payback period of seven years and is based on the price Ms 
B’s paid.
Taking all of the above into account, I believe it is more likely than not that the salesperson 
for G led Ms B to believe that the solar panels would be self-funding and the income and 
savings would be sufficient to cover the repayments required under the loan agreement.
I’m of the opinion that for the solar panels to be self-funding, and come at no additional cost 
to Ms B, the savings and income she would receive should have been sufficient to cover the 
repayments due under the loan agreement.
For clarity, Ms B’s expected savings and income from the solar panels are from:
(1) generation income tariff,
Ref: DRN9221681
3
(2) export tariff income, and;
(3) savings to Ms B by using the electricity generated by the panels rather than buying it 
from her energy provider.
On the personal illustration discussed above, the total return form the above three items, in 
the first year, was £990. My understanding is that when G arrived to install the solar panels 
they couldn’t place as many panels on the roof as first expected. So, Ms B was given a 
revised figure of £658. The loan payments were about £1,085 a year.
Taking these figures into account Ms B was likely to be out of pocket by about £100 in the 
first year based on the original figure and, around £430 in the first year based on the revised 
expectations. And these figures would broadly be the same during the term of the loan. This 
means that based on either figure, the solar panels weren’t self-funding. So, I’m satisfied that 
G misrepresented the benefits to Ms B.
Ms B didn’t have any previous experience of solar panel systems and was approached by G. 
I’m satisfied that Ms B decided to go ahead with the solar panel system based on the 
representation made by G that the system would be self-funding. 
For the reasons I’ve explained, I find that Ms B has suffered a loss as a result of the 
misrepresentation made by G. The system wasn’t self-funding and Ms B has ended up 
paying a significant amount over the savings. And as Creation has equal liability for the 
misrepresentation made by G, I find that it is responsible for Ms B’s loss.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Ms B’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels themselves but 
that she was led to believe that they would be self-funding. In a situation like this, I wouldn’t 
necessarily think that it would be fair and reasonable to require the removal of the solar 
panels from Ms B’s home. I would consider a fair outcome would be to put Ms B in a position 
where the solar panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan.
But, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I’m not satisfied that this would be fair. 
The solar panels are no longer installed, and Ms B isn’t receiving any benefit by way of FIT 
or savings from them. I accept that G has offered to reinstall the panels for Ms B at a later 
date, but she is currently in rented accommodation and therefore unable to have the panels 
reinstalled. And even if she were to have them reinstalled, she would no longer be able to 
receive FIT payments. My understanding is that as she had previously registered for FIT 
payments at a previous address, she would be unable to reregister at a new address. And G 
explained this to her before it removed the panels.
I’ve considered Creation’s position that it was Ms B’s choice to have the panels removed 
from her previous home. It’s suggested that Ms B could’ve arranged for her ex-husband to 
settle the loan agreement or she could have arranged for him to pay the benefits to her. But 
this isn’t what happened, and my understanding is that the divorce wasn’t amicable, so Ms B 
felt she had no choice but to pay G to remove the panels.   
Therefore, I’ve thought carefully on what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the particular circumstances of this complaint. The current situation is that the solar panels 
Ref: DRN9221681
4
are in storage and have been so for the last two years. During this time Ms B hasn’t received 
any benefits from the solar panels and has fallen into arrears with her loan agreement. And 
as I’ve explained above, even if at some point in the future Ms B was able to have the panels 
reinstalled, she would no longer be able to receive FIT payments. 
I’ve also considered that the solar panels have already been removed from Ms B’s previous 
home, and my understanding is that she paid G a fee of around £500 to do this. This amount 
is significantly lower than what I have seen on similar cases where a finance provider has 
paid for solar panel systems to be removed. So, I’ve taken into account that Creation 
wouldn’t have to arrange for the solar panels to be removed or be required to make good 
any damage to the roof when deciding what I think is fair compensation in this case. 
Taking everything I’ve set out above, I think the fair and reasonable outcome, in the 
particular circumstances of this complaint, would be for Creation to put Ms B back in the 
position she would have been in if there had been no misrepresentation. And I am of the 
opinion that if it wasn’t for the misrepresentation that the solar panel system would be self-
funding and come at no additional financial cost to her, Ms B wouldn’t have agreed to have 
them installed and enter into the finance agreement.
This means, to put Ms B back in the position she would have been in, Creation should 
unwind the loan agreement, refund any monthly payments Ms B has made and remove any 
record of the loan agreement from her credit file. As Ms B also wouldn’t have also incurred 
the additional expense of paying G to remove the solar panels from her previous home, I’m 
satisfied that Creation should also refund this amount to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. In 
full and final settlement of it, I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:
(a) unwind the loan agreement,
(b) refund the monthly repayment Ms B has made, minus any benefits she has received 
from the solar panels,
(c) add 8% simple interest* a year to each refunded sum from the date each payment 
was made to the date of settlement,
(d) arrange for the removal of any records of the loan from any external credit records for 
Ms B, and;
(e) refund Ms B the money she paid to have the solar panels removed, adding 8% 
simple interest* a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9221681
5
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much its’s taken off. It should 
also give Ms B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9221681
