K821x#14
complaint
Mrs R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a loan by telephone in 2005. The cost of the policy 
was added to the loan and repaid over the loan term.  
background
The adjudicator upheld the complaint. He didn’t think Creation had told Mrs R she had a 
choice about buying the policy. He also didn’t think it properly told her how much it would 
cost. The adjudicators didn’t think Mrs R would have bought the policy if she’d known these 
things.  
Creation disagreed. It said the sales script and loan agreement made clear the policy was 
optional. And the paperwork it sent to Mrs R also explained what the policy cost. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mrs R’s complaint, because:

Creation effectively sold the policy to Mrs R over the phone. So she would have relied 
more on what she was told during the call than on anything she got in writing afterwards. 
But Creation didn’t make clear during the telephone call that Mrs R had a choice about 
buying the policy. 

The script didn’t tell the call handler to clearly explain that the policy was optional, or get 
Mrs R’s consent to add it to her loan. Although the script said to give quotes ‘with and 
without’ PPI, it isn’t clear how they were explained, or what Mrs R was told.  

The brief mention of cancellation rights wasn’t enough to make Mrs R aware she had a 
choice about buying the policy. And it wouldn’t have given her the confidence to cancel 
the policy when Creation hadn’t first clearly told her she had a choice about whether to 
buy it.  

I can see that Mrs R ticked and signed for the PPI on the loan agreement. But that didn’t 
describe the PPI as optional. And by then the PPI looked like an integral part of the loan. 
The agreement didn’t say what would happen if Mrs R didn’t tick and sign. And although 
the very last sentence on the statement of price said it ‘wasn’t a requirement’ of the loan 
to buy the policy, this could be easily overlooked. 

The script didn’t properly disclose the policy costs. The credit agreement did set out the 
single premium and the total cost of the PPI. But it didn’t set out the interest as a 
separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to expect Mrs R to work out that figure for 
herself. She was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the 
policy to be in the loan agreement. 
Ref: DRN9368487
2

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mrs R would expect it to be.   

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would have 
been good practice and it might have helped Mrs R to better understand what the policy 
was costing her.  

I don’t think Mrs R would have bought the policy if she’d been made properly aware she 
had a choice, or if she’d known how much it was going to cost her, compared to the 
amount of the loan and what she was paying for it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Mrs R’s complaint. 
fair compensation
Mrs R should be put back in the position she would now be in if she’d taken out the loan 
without the PPI policy. I understand that the loan and PPI ran for their full term.
Creation should now therefore:
A. Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs R because PPI was added 
to the loan by:

calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs R had taken out the 
loan without PPI;

subtracting those amounts from what Mrs R actually paid, and paying her the difference; 
and

paying Mrs R simple interest on each of these amounts at 8% a year from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid†.
B. Write to Mrs R setting out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the 
compensation. Whether Mrs R needs to take any further action will depend on her financial 
circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our website.
Mrs R should refer back to Creation if she’s unsure of the approach it has taken. And Mrs R 
and Creation should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the 
tax treatment of this part of the compensation.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs R’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay her the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2014.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9368487
