K822x
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (‘CCA’) 1974.
Background 
Miss B was contacted by a company, I’ll refer to it as ‘P’, that supplied and installed solar 
panel systems. Following a meeting at her home Miss B agreed to enter into a contract with 
P for it to supply and install a solar panel system costing around £9,300. To fund this Miss B 
also entered into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Miss B made a claim under section 75 (‘s75’) of the CCA. She said that P had told her that 
the solar panel system would be ‘self-funded’ and that the monthly loan repayments would 
be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (‘FIT’) income. But that hadn’t happened. Instead, 
the monthly loan repayments had been much higher.
In its final response letter, Creation said that it didn’t think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented. As a gesture of goodwill, it offered to reduce the total amount 
payable under the loan agreement by 25%. Unhappy with this response, Miss B referred the 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She felt that the benefits of the 
solar panels had been mis-represented. In her latest view to both parties she recommended 
that Creation recalculate the potential savings and income from the solar panels to Miss B 
over the term of the loan. She said it should then restructure the loan so that Miss B would 
pay no more than this amount over the 10 year term of the loan. As this would mean that 
Miss B would have been paying more each month than she should’ve been our investigator 
also recommended it give Miss B the following four options as to how she would like her 
overpayments to be used:
1.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
Miss B continues to pay her current monthly loan repayment resulting in her loan 
finishing early,
2.
the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and 
she pays a new, lower monthly loan until the end of the loan term,
3.
the overpayments are returned to Miss B and she continues to pay her existing 
monthly loan repayment resulting in her loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments are returned to Miss B and she pays a new, lower monthly 
loan repayment until the end of the loan term.
Our investigator also recommended that Creation pay Miss B £100 to recognise the trouble 
and upset caused.
Creation accepted our investigators view of the complaint. Miss B didn’t. In summary, she 
said:

she didn’t think the assumptions used by Creation were fair and she’d made her 
own detailed calculation which showed that Creation had over-estimated the 
potential income and benefits she would receive,
Ref: DRN9424698
2

she thought Creation should also make a payment to her for the cost of replacing 
the inverter as it was likely to need replacing during the lifetime of the solar panel 
system, and;

£100 didn’t accurately reflect the trouble and upset this had caused her.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me to review.
 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B says that she was approached by P and during a sales meeting at her home told that 
the solar panel system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Miss B nor Creation dispute 
that P misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system. As a result, this decision will 
deal with what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonable with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
I’ve considered whether it would be appropriate to put Miss B back into the position she 
would have been in if they’re had been no misrepresentation i.e. Creation to refund all 
monies paid by Miss B, arrange for the solar panels to be removed and make good any 
damage caused. My view of Miss B’s complaint is that it isn’t so much about the solar panels 
themselves, but that she was led to believe that they would be self-funding and come at no 
additional cost to her. So, I don’t think it would be fair or proportionate to require the removal 
of the solar panels from her home. Rather, I think the fair outcome here is to put Miss B in a 
position where the panels are self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing 
Miss B to keep the solar panels, I’m satisfied that she will likely benefit from lower electricity 
bills and FIT payments going forward (i.e. after the term of the loan has finished).
Miss B has said that she doesn’t believe the assumptions that have been used by Creation 
are fair and result in it over-estimating the benefits she can expect to receive from her solar 
panels. She has provided her own calculation as to what she believes a fair figure would be.
I’ve carefully considered the methodology Creation has submitted to this service to calculate 
the total benefits of Miss B’s solar panel system. This methodology is based on the actual 
performance and estimated future performance of Miss B’s solar panels.
Creation has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Miss B’s 
solar panels, it will make a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by her panels that Miss B is 
expected to use rather than buying electricity from her energy provider. 
The self-consumption rate that is used by Miss B’s energy provider to calculate her FIT 
payments is 50%. This is based on the rate that was previously set by the Government. The 
Energy Savings Trust website had previously set out a table that showed the potential 
savings under various scenarios depending on the consumer’s lifestyle rather than a specific 
percentage.
Ref: DRN9424698
3
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted by the period of time that someone is in 
their home and able to use, or self-consume, the electricity that their solar panels are 
generating. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isn’t an exact science.
Taking the above into account I’m satisfied that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case. I’m of the opinion that this takes into account the evidence I’ve 
discussed above and will also take into account changing consumer occupancy habits over 
the lifetime of the solar panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, I’m satisfied that it is 
highly likely that Miss B will benefit from the solar panel system as a result of a reduction in 
her electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels and the FIT payments.
I’ve also considered the other assumptions used by Creation, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the retail price index (‘RPI’). I’m of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual 
average RPI for the last four years doesn’t seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, I’m satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by Creation provide a fair 
and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Miss B has said that there is no guarantee that the inverter in her solar panel system won’t 
need replacing and this is likely to cost a significant amount of money. So, I’ve considered 
whether an award should be made for any ongoing maintenance and repair costs.
I’ve looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that 
solar panels don’t need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter will need replacing 
‘sometime’ during the lifetime of the solar panel system as a cost of about £800.
I accept that a consumer could have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime of 
the solar panels. The proposed approach to put things right for a consumer is to make the 
panels self-funding over the original term of the loan. Once the loan has been repaid, as I’ve 
already outlined above, Miss B is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the solar 
panels by way of savings and FIT income going forward. In addition, Miss B has the flexibility 
to be paid a lump sum to cover her overpayments together with interest.
Based on the available information I’m satisfied that the potential benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs and Miss B has the flexibility to be paid her compensation as a 
lump sum payment to pay for a replacement inverter if necessary.
Because of the reasons I’ve given above I’m not persuaded that Creation should make an 
award for maintenance and repair costs.
Creation has also agreed that as long as Miss B can provide it with a copy of her warranty, 
and it can be evidenced that it formed part of the initial contract, it will honour the warranty. 
This doesn’t guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Miss B experiences any 
system issues within the original warranty period, she’d be entitled to raise a claim under the 
warranty and Creation will consider it under the warranty terms.
By making the solar panels self-funding, Miss B’s monthly payments will reduce, meaning 
that she would have previously been paying more each month than she should have 
Ref: DRN9424698
4
resulting in an overpayment. And as she has been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date the overpayment was made 
until the date of the settlement. In a case like this, I think the fairest resolution would be to 
allow Miss B to select from the below four options as to how she would like her 
overpayments and associated interest to be used:
1.
the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of her loan and she continues to make her current monthly loan repayment 
resulting in her loan finishing early,
2.
the overpayments and associated interest are used to reduce the outstanding 
balance of the loan and she pays a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the 
loan term,
3.
the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Miss B and she continues 
to pay her current monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or;
4.
the overpayments and associated interest are returned to Miss B and she pays a 
new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
If Miss B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
would prefer.
Our investigator recommended that Creation pay Miss B £100 to recognise the trouble and 
upset caused. Miss B has said this doesn’t reflect the time and effort she has had to make 
and believes an award of £500 to be more appropriate.
An award for trouble and upset isn’t intended to fine or punish the business – that’s the job of 
the regulator. Whilst I do not doubt that this whole episode has undoubtedly caused her 
trouble and upset, the amount recommended by the investigator is broadly in line with what 
we’d say is fair in the circumstances. Taking everything into account I’ll make an award of 
£100 to cover this.  
Ref: DRN9424698
5
My final decision
My final decision is that Miss B’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
(a) allow Miss B to keep the solar panels,
(b) estimate the potential savings and income to Miss B from the panels over the 10 year 
loan term and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it should use 
Miss B’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(c) add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of the settlement,
(d) allow Miss B to decide how she would like her overpayments to be used, using the 
four options described above, and;
(e) pay Miss B £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much it’s taken off. It 
should also give Miss B a certificate showing this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN9424698
