K821x#15
complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to reduce the instalments under 
a fixed term loan agreement following a credit to the account.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy of which is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I proposed to uphold Mrs S’s complaint and to 
require Creation to pay the sum of £848 to Mrs S in respect of the cancelled items, together 
with a further £300 compensation for trouble and upset. This was on the basis that the fixed 
term loan agreement ran its course.
I invited Mrs S and Creation to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted 
to make before I finally determined the matter. 
Creation didn’t respond to my provisional decision. 
Mrs S asked me to take into account the fact that by not having reduced payments she had 
been placed under a financial burden as she had purchased the items which could not be 
supplied from an alternative supplier and had entered into another finance agreement. Mrs S 
said she didn’t accept that Creation was unable to settle the initial agreement and set up a 
new agreement. Mrs S said she accepted the £848 refund but didn’t feel that £300 was 
sufficient compensation.
my findings
I’ve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve taken account of Mrs S’s further comments and I understand what a distressing time this 
has been for her. But I’m not persuaded that I should reach a different conclusion to the one 
set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons set out in detail in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold the 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN9903040
2
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Pay £848 to Mrs S in respect of the cancelled items

Pay compensation of £300 to Mrs S for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9903040
