K821x#15
complaint
Mr S complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2006, Mr S took out a £10,000 loan by phone to buy a car. He also bought a PPI policy. 
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and paid back over the loan term.
Both adjudicators who looked at Mr S’s complaint thought it should be upheld. The last 
adjudicator said she didn’t think Creation had made it clear to Mr S either that he had a 
choice about buying the PPI or how much the cover would cost him. The adjudicator didn’t 
think Mr S would’ve bought the PPI if he’d known these things.
Creation disagreed. It said its call script and the paperwork Mr S was sent afterwards made 
these things clear. So Mr S’s complaint has come to me.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I’ve taken this into account in deciding Mr S’s case.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint for two reasons. I don’t think Creation made it clear to 
Mr S either that he had a choice about buying the PPI or how much the cover would cost 
him.
My reasons for deciding Creation didn’t make it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about 
buying PPI are:

The sales script Creation says it would’ve used when it sold Mr S’s PPI doesn’t say 
anything about telling Mr S he had a choice about the cover. And it doesn’t say 
anything about getting Mr S’s explicit consent. It does refer to two quotes, with and 
without PPI. But it’s not clear how these would’ve been described to Mr S and, in 
particular, how the “without” quote would’ve been presented.

The script does talk about cancellation rights. But I don’t think this brief mention 
would’ve given Mr S the confidence to cancel the policy, when Creation hadn’t made 
it clear in the first place he had a choice about buying it. 

The loan agreement Creation sent Mr S afterwards also doesn’t make it clear he had 
a choice. I can see he’s ticked and signed for PPI on the agreement. But the 
agreement doesn’t say what will happen if Mr S doesn’t tick and sign. I can also see, 
at the end of the statement of price (which itself is at the end of the policy summary), 
there’s a sentence saying PPI isn’t a requirement of the loan. But I think it would’ve 
been very easy for Mr S to miss this.
My reasons for deciding Creation didn’t make the cost of the cover clear to Mr S are:
Ref: DRN9460116
2

The sales script doesn’t clearly set out the policy costs. The loan agreement did set 
out the premium (£1,854.34) and the total cost of the PPI (£2,231.30). But it didn’t set 
out the interest (£376.70) as a separate figure. I don’t think it was reasonable to 
expect Mr S to work that out for himself. He was entitled to expect all the important 
information about the cost of the policy, including how much interest he’d pay, to be 
in the loan agreement.  
•
The statement of price I’ve already mentioned did set out the interest. But, as I’ve 
also mentioned, it was at the end of the policy summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or 
where Mr S might expect it to be.   
•
None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy either. This would’ve 
been good practice and it might have helped Mr S to have a better understanding of 
what the PPI was costing him.  
I don’t think Mr S would’ve bought PPI if Creation had told him clearly that he had a choice, 
or if he’d known how much it was going to cost him, compared to the amount of his loan and 
what he was paying for it.
what Creation must do to put things right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been and he 
paid more than he should’ve each month. Mr S needs to get back the extra he’s paid. 
So, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without PPI.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, I uphold Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
pay Mr S compensation as I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2015.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9460116
