K820x#11
complaint
Miss V complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not reduce the amount of her 
loan even though she did not receive all the goods she ordered and some that were received 
were damaged.
background
Miss V ordered a number of items of furniture in 2012 for which she paid a deposit. She 
agreed a finance agreement through Creation to pay the balance by instalments. Although 
some items were delivered, Miss V says that she told Creation in April 2013 that the full 
order had not been received. She also said that some items were damaged and the store 
had agreed a 20% discount for these. The store that Miss V purchased the goods from is in 
administration and Creation was not able to safely conclude that the items had not been 
delivered in full.
The adjudicator did not recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
there was not sufficient evidence to show that Miss V did not receive all of the order or that a 
20% discount had been offered.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our adjudicator for broadly the reasons given.
I fully understand Miss V’s frustration in that she says that she is now paying for goods that 
she simply did not receive. However, like the adjudicator, I find that I am unable to safely 
conclude that the items she originally purchased were not all delivered. Furthermore, whilst 
I do not doubt that Miss V did tell Creation that some of the items she received were 
damaged and that the store had agreed a 20% discount; unfortunately there is no record of 
this. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that I should require Creation to reduce the 
amount outstanding on Miss V’s account.
Miss V also says that she returned a damaged item to the store but never received a 
replacement. Again, neither the administrators nor Creation have any record of this and 
Miss V has been unable to provide copies of a delivery or collection note.
The administrators have confirmed that there is an outstanding credit on Miss V’s account. 
Creation has offered to apply this credit to the amount outstanding and to pay a further £50 
as a goodwill gesture for the time it took to investigate Miss V’s complaint. I consider this to 
be fair and reasonable. If, upon reflection, Miss V decides that she now wishes to accept the 
offer, she should contact Creation directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9180786
