K822x
complaint
Mr H complains, in summary, that Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, 
didn’t deal satisfactorily with the administration of his finance agreement and it unfairly 
applied missed payment markers to his credit file. As a result, he was unable to remortgage 
with a lower interest rate which has caused him financial loss.
background
Mr H entered into a running account credit agreement with Creation on 26 December 2016. 
He bought items using Creation’s account in late December 2016 from a retailer (“R”). They 
were to be repaid by nine monthly direct debit repayments from January 2017. Due to an 
error by R, his account wasn’t activated and his payments weren’t taken by Creation. Mr H 
contacted Creation about this in March 2017. He said that Creation told him that it had no 
agreement with him and that he should speak to R about this, which he did. But as Mr H 
didn’t think he needed to make the repayments at that stage, he spent the money for the 
repayments on his car.
R then told Mr H in June 2017 that the loan repayments would start to be taken in early 
July 2017. Mr H was also told by Creation that the first repayment would be deducted earlier 
than this, on 26 June 2017.
Mr H complained to Creation about the confusion caused by the two different dates, and it 
said that it would put his account on hold for two weeks, and that he didn’t have to make a 
repayment until he received feedback on his complaint. Mr H was then concerned to 
discover that Creation had put a missed payment marker on his credit file. R accepted that it 
had made an error in giving Mr H the wrong repayment date and it paid him an amount 
equivalent to his first two months’ loan repayments in mid-July 2017.
Mr H paid Creation the first two loan repayments on 28 July 2017. He then paid the third 
loan repayment on 20 August 2017. But Creation applied that repayment towards the capital 
balance, and not to his loan repayments. And it applied a further missed payment marker to 
Mr H’s credit file. It also charged Mr H missed payment fees. Mr H hadn’t been told by 
Creation that he needed to make his repayments on the 26th of the month. As he hadn’t, it 
treated the repayment as not having been made. And he wasn’t told about this until after he 
had made his August repayment. So Mr H complained about the further missed payment 
marker on his credit file.
Creation removed the missed payment markers in mid-September 2017 and it refunded the 
missed payment fees.
Mr H spoke to Creation on 26 October 2017 to repay the outstanding balance and was told 
to repay £371.53. He was then surprised to receive a demand from Creation to pay a further 
amount of £5.91. Creation then waived the amount of £5.91 and Mr H’s account was closed.
Mr H was particularly unhappy about the missed payment markers on his credit file as he 
was trying to remortgage at the time and he was concerned that the missed payment 
markers would affect his application. The fixed rate on Mr H’s existing mortgage had ended 
in September 2017, and the interest rate on his mortgage had increased. So he was seeking 
to remortgage elsewhere with a lower rate. As he didn’t receive a new remortgage offer until 
20 November 2017, after the missed payment markers had been removed from his credit 
file, he was obliged to pay two higher monthly repayments in October and November 2017 
Ref: DRN9756134
2
(around £85 per month higher than his previous monthly repayments) until the remortgage 
was completed. He is seeking a refund of around £170.
our investigator’s view
The investigator agreed that Creation had made errors. He concluded that the combination 
of R’s compensation payment and Creation’s actions in removing the adverse credit file 
entries and refunding the charges was fair redress for Mr H’s complaint.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that the investigator hadn’t investigated all his 
concerns. He was disappointed by the investigator’s view and believed that the investigator 
agreed that Creation could treat him as it wished. He also said that a remortgage offer at a 
lower interest rate had been delayed due to the incorrect missed payment entries on his 
credit file. He was also taking legal advice about the matter.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to Creation on 26 March 2018. I summarise my findings:
It was clear to me that the initial errors in this complaint were due to R’s failure to activate 
Mr H’s account and its error in telling Mr H the wrong payment date. I noted that R had 
provided compensation to Mr H for this.
I also noted that Mr H felt that Creation shouldn’t have referred him back to R when it had 
told him that his agreement had been cancelled. But Creation had told us that this was the 
correct process as he had returned purchases to R.
But, after seeking more information from Creation and Mr H, and listening to recordings of 13 
of the phone calls between Mr H and Creation, I’d thought that Creation had also made 
mistakes in administering the finance agreement.
I’d referred to the calls we’d received by their numbering. I’d thought the issues were as 
follows:
1. Creation had told Mr H that his account would be put on hold in June 2017 (call 1) for two 
weeks, and that he needn’t make a payment until he’d received feedback on his complaint, 
which would take around a week. But I’d noted that a final response letter wasn’t provided 
until early September 2017. Despite this reassurance, I noted that Creation had put a late 
payment marker on Mr H’s credit file. But Mr H had understood that no action would be 
taken whilst his complaint was being investigated. Creation had also told this service that a 
hold wasn’t put on the account in June 2017.
2. It had provided incorrect information to Mr H about his outstanding balance (call 3) when 
fees should have been written off as previously agreed.
3. It had failed to tell Mr H that his payments had to be made on the 26th of each month until 
after his August 2017 payment. As it didn’t tell Mr H this, his mid-August repayment wasn’t 
taken as his contractual monthly repayment, but instead was credited to his balance. As a 
result Creation had put a further missed payment marker on his credit file even though the 
repayment had been made.
Ref: DRN9756134
3
I’d seen copies of Creation’s monthly statements and these referred to payments having to 
be made by the 26th of the relevant month. So, I could see that these weren’t clear that the 
payments had to be made on the 26th of the month.
I’d also seen a copy of the credit agreement dated 26 December 2016 and the agreement 
terms and conditions. These had referred to the payments having to be made on a fixed 
date. But I noted that Mr H said that he never received the agreement. I noted that Creation 
had told us that Mr H would have been given a copy of the agreement and terms and 
conditions. But the screen it had sent us about this said “Agreement has been esigned but 
no paper work received”. This appeared to indicate that Mr H didn’t get copies of the 
agreement documents. So, I could see that he mightn’t have known about the need to make 
repayments on a fixed date.
4. It had failed to tell Mr H that a further payment in respect of continued daily interest would 
be needed to pay off the whole outstanding balance (although this was later waived).
5. It had told Mr H that he wasn’t in arrears with his payments (on call 8) but he was told on a 
phone call (call 9) that he was in arrears.
6. It had sent Mr H an arrears letter on 28 June 2017 when Mr H had understood he didn’t 
have to make a payment until early July 2017. The letter didn’t make any reference to a late 
payment marker being added to his credit file.
I noted from listening to the 13 calls that Mr H became extremely frustrated by Creation’s 
actions. He had to keep explaining the situation to Creation’s staff, and became exasperated 
that it was providing him with incorrect information. He was especially upset as he thought 
that Creation’s adverse credit file entries would affect his ability to remortgage. I could also 
see that he believed that Creation’s staff was patronising towards him. I also could see that 
Mr H had spent a considerable time on the calls and trying to resolve the matter.
As a result of Creation’s mistakes in administering the finance agreement, I’d thought that 
Creation should pay £200 compensation to Mr H for his distress and inconvenience as a 
result of its actions.
I’d also noted that Mr H had told Creation that he was trying to remortgage. Mr H’s mortgage 
broker said that Mr H had made two remortgage applications in July 2017 which had initially 
been declined. But after Creation had removed its adverse entries, Mr H had received a 
remortgage offer in late November 2017.
But I’d also seen a copy of Mr H’s credit file. I’d seen that there was a note on the file to 
show that he was disputing Creation’s missed payment entries. But I’d also noted that Mr H 
had missed a payment on a credit card in the previous twelve months, and in the previous 
24 months there were missed payments on another credit account and a utility account. 
I thought that it was possible that entries such as these might have affected a remortgage 
application. In addition, I’d said that I was also aware that lenders used a variety of sources, 
including credit files, to establish their lending criteria. So, it was also possible that any 
remortgage declines might have been due to other reasons.
I’d also noted that Mr H’s remortgage offer was for a higher amount than his current 
mortgage, so this too might have affected potential lenders’ decisions. I’d also noted that one 
lender in mid-October 2017 had declined the remortgage application as the amount of the 
loan compared to the value of the property exceeded its policy lending criteria. So, this 
Ref: DRN9756134
4
supported my view that Creation’s late payment markers might not have been the sole 
reason for Mr H’s remortgage difficulties.
So, for these reasons, I wasn’t persuaded that I could safely conclude that it was due to the 
Creation entries alone that Mr H was unable to remortgage. So, I didn’t propose to order 
Creation to refund the difference in the two months’ mortgage repayments.
Subject to any further representations by Mr H or Creation my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited, trading as Creation, to pay £200 compensation to Mr H for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr H responded to say that he was happy with the outcome.
Creation responded to say that it agreed with the outcome and that the compensation 
amount took into consideration the inconvenience Mr H had regrettably incurred. It also 
referred to the following part of my decision:
“I could also see that he believed that Creation’s staff was patronising towards him. I also 
could see that Mr H had spent a considerable time on the calls and trying to resolve the 
matter.”
Creation asked for staff feedback purposes whether this was in relation to a specific 
complaint or whether it was the overall feel from the calls.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Creation had referred to part of my decision concerning its calls with Mr H and 
asked whether I was referring to a specific complaint in my comments or whether it was an 
overall feel. I recall that Mr H had specifically remarked in one of the calls I’d listened to that 
the staff member was being patronising towards him. So, I think that Mr H was referring to a 
specific call.
Otherwise, neither of the parties has provided any further information in response to my 
provisional decision. So I’m satisfied that the proposed resolution in my provisional decision 
is fair in all the circumstances, and I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of it, I order 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation, to pay £200 compensation to Mr H 
for distress and inconvenience.
Creation must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
Ref: DRN9756134
5
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2018.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9756134
