K822x
complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has failed to deal fairly with him, 
following financial difficulties.
 
background 
Mr A had loan and card accounts with Creation. Following financial difficulties, he says that 
Creation has repeatedly written to him with incorrect information and threats of collections. 
He also says Creation has not responded to his enquiries about how the debt had been 
calculated, has applied unfair charges and has taken an inconsistent approach to waiving 
interest.
Mr A considers that the way Creation has dealt with him, including failure to deal with his 
accounts together and refusing to register default, has added further to his problems. As 
things were not settled between Mr A and Creation, Mr A brought his complaint to this 
service where an adjudicator investigated it. Mr A also said that he had not received annual 
statements on his loan account, and questioned whether that affected Creation’s ability to 
charge interest. 
After discussions with both Mr A and Creation, the adjudicator proposed the following 
settlement:

the fixed-sum loan account should be defaulted backdated to 31 July 2015;

two credit card accounts should be defaulted backdated to October 2014; and

Mr A should receive compensation of £150.
When arriving at that proposal, the adjudicator took account of refunds and interest 
suspensions that had already been provided on Mr A’s account, and also that the annual 
loan statements appeared to have been issued by Creation to the correct address.
Creation agreed to offer the proposed redress. Mr A was initially not convinced this went far 
enough to settle things fairly, but decided on reflection to accept the proposal and returned 
our signed settlement form.
The adjudicator forwarded the signed form to Creation, to enable it to finalise the settlement. 
Creation then wrote to say that it had paid the £150 to Mr A but, having reviewed the case in 
the light of information regulatory guidelines, it now did not consider that it could add a 
default while the relationship with Mr A continued and he was maintaining any form of 
payments under an arrangement. Given that this went against what it had previously agreed 
to do, it said it would pay further compensation of £300.
The adjudicator did not consider that Creation was prevented from applying the defaults as 
agreed. She was also concerned that, having made Mr A wait for a considerable length of 
time while it considered and then accepted the settlement proposals, it had subsequently 
gone back on what it had agreed to do.
Ref: DRN9767235
2
Mr A said he found Creation’s stance frustrating and unhelpful, and felt it was not giving 
sufficient consideration to his long-term financial hardship. In the light of the overall situation, 
the complaint was referred for decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There’s no doubt that Mr A has found it very difficult to communicate with Creation about his 
accounts, and to explore what arrangements could be made following his becoming unable 
to support his contractual repayments. 
From the evidence, I am satisfied that Creation did not coordinate its administration of the 
accounts and seems to have relied on standard letters which did not take into account the 
actual position here.
Mr A is in arrears and has paid reduced amounts for a considerable period of time. While 
there have been payment arrangements, the fact is that he has not been able to return to the 
contractual repayments and – given the further setback he has now experienced when his 
job was made redundant – there seems no reasonable prospect of his ever being able to do 
so. 
Given the situation that has applied here, I do not see that Creation would breach any 
information regulatory guidelines in registering the defaults as agreed with the adjudicator. I 
also note that Creation did not raise this issue at all until a considerable length of time had 
elapsed and it had already agreed to the proposed settlement. Creation was certainly given 
plenty of time to consider all this, before it made its offer.
The other decision to which Creation refers does not directly assist it, since the point in this 
case is that the adjudicator arrived at what she viewed as a broadly fair outcome to address 
Mr A’s complaint, which Creation offered and Mr A accepted. In all the circumstances, I am 
not persuaded that Creation is prevented from putting into effect the resolution which it 
agreed to provide. 
Taking everything into account, including the extended time during which Creation has made 
Mr A wait while it went back on its previous agreement, I consider that the fair outcome for 
this case is that Creation should default the accounts as it has previously agreed to do and 
should also pay Mr A the additional compensation it has now offered.
Backdating the defaults will not result in any interest adjustment on the fixed sum loan 
agreement, because of the way that product is structured. But interest charged after 
1 October 2014 on the relevant credit card accounts (which are Mr A’s ASDA card and his 
Direct Credit card) will need to be adjusted, back-dated to the date of default. 
Ref: DRN9767235
3
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

apply a default to the fixed-sum loan account, backdated to 31 July 2015;

apply defaults to the two credit card accounts backdated to 1 October 2014, making 
the appropriate interest rebates; and

pay Mr A a further £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2016.
Jane Hingston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9767235
