K820x#14
complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the quality of a sofa suite they bought from a furniture 
company in 2010. They say that discolouration of the leather has been occurring since about 
October 2011 and it’s now got much worse. They believe the sofa may have been made with 
bonded leather and not genuine leather as they believed. They believe Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd is responsible for this as the lender for the goods. 
background
Mr and Mrs A bought a sofa suite from a furniture supplier, which I’ll call “D” in 2010 using a 
fixed sum loan agreement. The sofa suite was delivered in March 2011. In October 2011, the 
arm of the sofa collapsed and the sofa had spots of discolouration. The sofa was inspected 
and Mr and Mrs A were told the arm had been made with cardboard and this was rectified. 
The spots of discoloration were re-stained. 
Mr and Mrs A say the discolouration has continued over time and they have called D on 
numerous times about this. They were left with some re-staining product so they could 
recolour any areas themselves. But this has now got much worse. Mr and Mrs A did some 
research and discovered their leather sofa suite might not be genuine leather but bonded 
leather. And after discussing this with Citizens Advice, they complained to Creation about 
the quality of the goods as they believed it was responsible for the quality of the goods they 
were sold under the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973. 
Creation upheld the complaint – to the extent that Mr and Mrs A had been offered a recolour 
of the sofa by D and so there were faults and they had received their desired outcome.      
Mr and Mrs A weren’t happy with this and so referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong. She said the Sale of Goods 
Act 1979 applied to this complaint. But as there was no information available from the sale to 
say how the goods were described she was unable to find a misrepresentation of the quality 
of the leather had occurred. And because it was believed the discolouration was linked to 
that, she didn’t find that anything had gone wrong. 
Mr and Mrs A didn’t agree and provided a report from a leather furniture manufacturer who 
believed it possible the type of leather used was wrong. But the investigator stood by her 
original view and so the matter has been referred to me for review and determination.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 April 2018. I said:
The sofa suite was bought using a fixed sum loan agreement. That means neither the 
Sale of Goods Act 1979 nor the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 apply to this 
complaint against Creation. That’s because the ownership of the goods was never passed to 
Creation during the sales process and then sold to Mr and Mrs A as they would be under a 
hire purchase or conditional sale agreement (in these situations Creation would effectively 
be selling the suite not D). However, both of those Acts would apply against D. 
That said Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act does apply to this complaint. That’s 
because Creation lent money to Mr and Mrs A for goods from a supplier it had an existing 
relationship with. Under Section 75 if the debtor, in this case Mr and Mrs A, have a claim 
against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
Ref: DRN9699338
2
like claim against the creditor, who with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.   
This means if I find there was a misrepresentation of the goods, or the contract between D 
and Mr and Mrs A was breached, Creation can be held equally liable for any remedy. So I’ve 
considered whether either of these apply. I will deal with each in turn, although there is some 
interlinking. 
Mr and Mrs A believe their leather suite may have been made with bonded leather when 
they thought they had bought genuine leather. I’ve considered the research they’ve done. 
But they haven’t provided any evidence the suite was actually made with bonded leather, 
this is just their belief. They also haven’t been able to provide any of the literature describing 
the product from when it was bought. Creation hasn’t been able to obtain this from D either. 
This isn’t surprising given the sale took place over seven years ago. But without any 
information about how the suite was described in 2010, I’m not persuaded Mr and Mrs A 
have provided persuasive evidence that a misrepresentation has occurred. 
Mr and Mrs A bought the suite from D and that was provided. But if the goods aren’t of 
satisfactory quality then that could amount to a breach of contract. As I have found above, 
there is no information available from the sale about what type of leather the suite was made 
from. And I think this is central to whether or not the goods were of a satisfactory quality. To 
explain, if it was clear the suite was made from bonded leather it wouldn’t be reasonable to 
expect the quality to be the same as genuine leather, or therefore for the goods to last as 
long.
I’ve considered the report Mr and Mrs A have provided. But I don’t find it to be particularly 
comprehensive or therefore persuasive. The report refers to the possibility of belly leather 
being used in the production which isn’t considered usual as it’s prone to splitting and 
cracking. But there is no finding that belly leather has actually been used. And I’m mindful 
this is different to their original belief that bonded leather was used. 
I’ve also considered the comments in the report that if it’s not belly leather, then the leather 
is of an inferior quality as a result of not being tanned or finished properly. So the report 
gives two possible reasons as to why the leather is suffering discolouration. But it makes no 
definitive finding about either. And there is nothing in the report to indicate what the leather 
might be, or is, inferior to. We don’t know what quality of leather the goods were made from 
when they were bought, so there is no persuasive evidence that Mr and Mrs A didn’t get 
what they ordered and paid for. 
Given the price they paid for the suite it seems possible that it was of a lesser quality. But 
this of itself doesn’t mean there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract. I’ve 
already found I don’t have any persuasive evidence that the goods they bought were 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs A. And although I can see the cracks in their sofa and what 
appears to be bits of leather coming away (which is very different to their complaint of 
discolouration) this could be down to wear and tear, particularly given the age of the suite. 
Overall I’m not persuaded I’ve seen persuasive evidence the suite wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was bought, such that I would find there’s been a breach of contract. As such 
I’m not persuaded Mr and Mrs A have a claim against Creation for misrepresentation or a 
breach of contract.
Mr and Mrs A don’t agree. In summary, they’ve said:
Ref: DRN9699338
3

The leather is actually peeling it’s not just a loss of colour.

Although the report didn’t find it was bonded leather it did find it was leather of inferior 
quality. The sales paperwork refers to leather and it would be expected to be of a 
quality used to manufacture furniture.

Creation upheld the complaint as there were faults. Although a recolour was offered it 
doesn’t last and it doesn’t address the issue of the leather being of an inferior quality. 
No retailers’ state quality of leather at the time of purchase and the customer buys on 
trust.

It was misrepresented at the sale as nowhere does it say inferior quality or second 
grade leather. The sales people might not have been aware of the quality of leather 
used. 

The cracks and peeling away of the leather has been happening since the first year 
of purchase. 
I asked Creation for its comments in relation to point three. It explained the re-colour was 
offered as a gesture of goodwill as Mr and Mrs A were outside of the two year warrantee 
period. The goods are seven years old and there is no evidence of a manufacturing fault. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the responses to my 
provisional decision, to decide what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I’ve found no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
I do understand Mr and Mrs A feel very strongly about this matter. But it remains that they 
haven’t provided any persuasive evidence that the suite they bought was misrepresented to 
them or that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
Mr and Mrs A quite rightly say the suite they bought was described as leather. That is 
correct. And I do accept it doesn’t say inferior quality or second grade leather but it doesn’t 
say anything about the suite being of top quality or top grade leather either. It’s simply 
described as leather and that is what Mr and Mrs A got. So I’m still not persuaded any     
mis-representation occurred. 
There are many different grades of leather that can be used to make furniture, including that 
previously mentioned by Mr and Mrs A of bonded leather. And I think it fair to say that 
furniture made of top grade leather is likely to last longer and command a higher price than 
furniture made of lower quality leather. The report Mr and Mrs A provided does indicate the 
leather is of inferior quality. But there is still no indication of what it was inferior to; if it was 
inferior to top quality leather that doesn’t mean the leather used can’t or shouldn’t have been 
used for making furniture. And it doesn’t persuade me the suite wasn’t of satisfactory quality 
for its price when it was bought. 
I have already acknowledged Mr and Mrs A’s suite appears to be peeling. And although they 
believe I’m at word play, I remain satisfied that is far different to discolouration. 
Discolouration is how Mr and Mrs A described patches on their suite about a year into 
owning it. But discolouration can happen over time and can be dependent on different things 
such as cleaning products and whether a suite sits in sunlight, amongst others. I accept it 
might also be as a result of a defect or fault, but Mr and Mrs A haven’t provided any 
persuasive evidence that’s what happened here or that what they were actually experiencing 
a year in and since was peeling. 
Ref: DRN9699338
4
This suite was bought a number of years ago. I accept Mr and Mrs A believe it should have 
lasted far longer than it has. But I’ve not seen evidence that would persuade me a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract has occurred that would make Creation liable for any 
remedy. 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2018.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9699338
