K822x
complaint
Mr R bought a sofa using a fixed sum loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF). He 
complains that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality.
background 
Mr R agreed the purchase and the loan in December 2007. The loan agreement included an 
option to settle free of interest, provided that payment was made by December 2008.
The sofa was delivered to Mr R in March 2008. He complained about defects to the supplier 
in October 2008. He said he was told that he would receive a replacement, but the supplier 
entered administration shortly thereafter. 
Mr R complained to CCF in April 2009:

Seeking to reject the sofa and to obtain a refund of his £99 purchase deposit

Also seeking compensation 

Saying that he would be withholding payments to his loan account.
CCF wrote to Mr R in October 2009, saying that he would need to demonstrate the defect 
was present at the time of delivery, and that he should obtain (at his own expense) an 
independent inspection report. CCF also asked him to settle the outstanding balance on his 
account, and warned him that failure to maintain payments would adversely affect his credit 
file. 
In February 2012, Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In 
February 2013, CCF issued its final response letter to him. In September 2013, he obtained 
an independent inspection report (costing £150) that said the sofa had a manufacturing fault. 
In November 2013, our adjudicator recommended that to resolve this complaint CCF should:

Allow Mr R to pay it £705.03 in order to settle the loan account – this being the 
amount that would have applied in February 2009 (before the account went into 
arrears, and related interest and other charges were applied to it) – provided that 
payment is made within 30 days of acceptance of this offer;

Arrange to have the sofa repaired; 

Refund the independent inspection cost to Mr R.
CCF had already agreed in October 2013 to remove the adverse entries (including a default 
marker) it had applied to Mr R’s credit file. It accepted our adjudicator’s recommendation, but 
Mr R did not. He responded to say this was not the outcome he was seeking, and he did not 
feel that he should have to pay the outstanding balance.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find that I have come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator, for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN9556142
2
Because Mr R made this purchase using a loan agreed with CCF, and the sofa was found to 
be defective at the point of delivery, he can bring a claim against it under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. CCF has agreed to fulfil its obligations under this legislation by 
repairing the sofa. But Mr R has a parallel obligation to make the payments required under 
the loan agreement.
I feel that both parties have allowed this dispute to drift over several years, by not acting in 
ways that would have helped draw matters to a conclusion. I agree with our adjudicator that 
Mr R should not be released from his obligation to repay his debt. But I also agree that it 
would be unfair to make him pay the additional interest and other charges, applied to his 
account during the course of this dispute.
Therefore, I consider our adjudicator’s recommendations to be both well balanced, and fair 
and reasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should:
1.
Allow Mr R to pay it £705.03 in order to settle the loan account – provided that 
payment is made within 30 days of acceptance of my decision.
2.
Remove all the adverse entries it made on Mr R’s credit file relating to this loan – 
again provided that the account is settled as above within 30 days of acceptance of 
my decision.
3.
Arrange to have the sofa repaired. 
4.
Refund £150 to Mr R.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9556142
