K820x#14
complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Limited recorded adverse information 
against his credit file. 
background
Mr S had a loan with Creation. As part of the loan agreement, he had to make regular 
monthly repayments. Mr S said he did this for the most part, but towards the end of the 
agreement, he changed his bank and so provided Creation with his new bank details so the 
repayments would continue. But this did not happen and so the repayments were not made. 
Mr S said this was Creation’s fault as he was not to know the repayments had stopped. He 
also said he did not receive any communication from Creation telling him about the problem 
it was experiencing with his repayments. Mr S wants Creation to amend the adverse 
information it recorded against his credit file. 
Creation has declined to make any adjustments to Mr S’ credit file. It said the information it 
recorded is a true reflection of what happened and that it no longer administers the loan as it 
was passed to a third party debt recovery firm. It also said it sent Mr S numerous letters and 
texts as well as attempted to speak to him by phone – all of which went unanswered. 
Our investigator thought Creation had done what it needed to. He accepted Mr S updated 
his bank details and that there was a problem with Creation taking the money. But he 
highlighted it attempted to contact him to try and sort the issue. He also said that it was Mr S’ 
responsibility to ensure his repayments were made. 
Mr S disagreed. In summary he said he made the majority of payments and says this as an 
indicator that he would not have intentionally missed the last year of repayments. He 
maintains that he received no letters and disputes the amount of the last payment he made. 
And so it’s for me to make a decision. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m not persuaded by the arguments made by Mr S and I’d like to explain why. Mr S signed 
an agreement with Creation for the loan. As part of this agreement, it says;
'The total amount is payable by 48 monthly instalments of £422.93 the first payable on
20/02/2014 and remainder payable on the same date of each succeeding month'. 
It goes on to say;
'Charges and interest will be payable if you do not make the repayments that are due
under the agreement on time. This may mean that it will cost more to pay off the loan.
Your credit rating may be adversely affected and could make obtaining credit more
difficult and expensive in the future. It may also result in legal action being taken to
recover that debt'.
Ref: DRN9470457
2
The reason I’ve highlighted this part of the agreement is because this puts the responsibility 
on Mr S to ensure his repayments are made and on time. I acknowledge what Mr S 
explained about not realising his monthly repayments were not being made, but I’m not 
persuaded by it. I find it unlikely that someone would not notice a large amount of money like 
this not being collected from their account. In addition, it’s Mr S’ responsibility to make sure 
he his monthly repayments were met. And given he noticed his repayment in April 2017 was 
not made, I think it reasonable to expect he would have noticed, in the same way, when his 
other repayments had stopped.
Creation has also provided evidence to show that it sent Mr S a large number of letters, text 
messages and phone calls to try and establish what was happening, in addition to letting him 
know it had defaulted his credit file and then instructed debt collectors to recover the 
outstanding balance. So even if I take on face value that Mr S did not receive any contact 
from Creation about this, I’m still satisfied it took reasonable steps to try and engage and 
notify Mr S about the situation – which is what I’d expect it to do in circumstances such as 
these. And so although Mr S explained Creation should have emailed him, I do not agree for 
the reasons I’ve explained. I’d also like to highlight Mr S received letters from Creation in the 
past, so I find it unlikely he did not receive any of the 20+ sent from May 2017.
Mr S has also disputed the amount of the last payment he made in April 2017. Our 
investigator suggested it was lower than the contractual monthly payment. Having carefully 
considered this point, I’m satisfied Mr S made the repayment in full and not a reduced 
amount. I note Creation’s own evidence supports this and so Mr S does not need to provide 
any further proof in this regard.   
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold Mr S’ complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2018.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9470457
