K820x#14
complaint
Ms M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd provided her with wrong information 
about paying down her fixed sum loan agreement which led her to taking out further credit 
unnecessarily.
background
Ms M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in February 2017. In 
January 2018, she contacted Creation and was told that if she made an additional payment 
she could reduce her monthly payments. Ms M says that based on this information she took 
out a loan with the intention of using part of this to make a lump sum payment towards her 
agreement. However she was then told that any additional payment would not reduce her 
monthly payments but instead the term of her agreement.
Ms M says that the incorrect information meant she borrowed more than she would have 
done and now has to make the same monthly payments to Creation as well as the 
repayments on her new loan.
Creation accepts that Ms M was provided with incorrect advice. It says it paid her £50 
because of this and says that feedback was provided to the agent that gave the incorrect 
information. It also removed a missed payment marker that had been applied to Ms M’s 
credit file.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He didn’t think that the incorrect information 
provided by Creation led Ms M to take out more money than she required. Based on this he 
thought the £50 compensation was fair.
Ms M did not accept our investigator’s view. She reiterated that she was given wrong 
information and said she had spent time on the phone trying to deal with this issue which 
had been going on for a long time. She did not accept that £50 compensation was sufficient.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the call on which Ms M was told that if she made an additional payment 
she could reduce the amount of her monthly payments. Creation has not disputed that Ms M 
was provided with the wrong information and has confirmed that any additional payments will 
result in less interest being paid overall and the agreement term being reduced. 
Ms M says that because of the advice she received she took out a £10,000 loan which in 
part was to pay down her agreement with Creation. She says that had she known she would 
not be able to reduce her monthly payments she would have taken out a smaller loan. She 
has provided information on what she has used around £5,500 of the loan to do (including 
paying off other debts).
Creation has paid Ms M £50 compensation as well as amending her credit file. Ms M says 
that the compensation paid is not enough. She says she is now left paying the same monthly 
amount to Creation alongside her repayments on the £10,000 loan. She also says this issue 
has caused her trouble and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN9062724
2
My role is not to punish the business but where a mistake has been made to ensure that the 
customer is put back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been made 
and, where appropriate, award compensation. The outstanding issue in this case is whether 
£50 is enough to compensate Ms M for the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Having listened to the calls made in January, Ms M was given the incorrect advice on 
16 January and then contacted Creation again to discuss her agreement on 17 January 
where she was told monthly payment amounts would not be reduced. On this call she says 
that she has taken out a loan to make the additional payment. Later on this call the new loan 
is discussed and it is noted that the new loan is interest free and that it could not be given 
back. 
So while a mistake was made and Ms M was given incorrect advice, given the new loan was 
interest free, using this to pay an additional amount towards her agreement would still have 
been beneficial. I say this because although the monthly payment amount would not change 
the term would reduce and the overall interest paid under the agreement would reduce. That 
said I understand that Ms M may not have wished to do this after finding out the monthly 
payments would not reduce. 
Ms M has said she has used part of the loan to make repayments on other accounts which 
would have benefitted Ms M so it is reasonable to accept that she would have taken out the 
loan (even if a lesser amount) even if she had not been given incorrect advice by Creation. 
Overall based on the information I have received I cannot say that she has suffered a 
financial loss through taking out the new loan.
I understand why Ms M is upset that she could not reduce her monthly payments after being 
told that this could happen. However Creation has explained that this is not something it 
does. As set out above I do not find that the issues raised in this complaint have resulted in a 
financial loss to Ms M but she has been caused trouble and upset. 
Ms M was given incorrect advice on 16 January and this was identified on the call on 
17 January. So while this issue has caused Ms M distress and inconvenience given the short 
time frame in which the information was corrected, I find that the £50 compensation provided 
by Creation is sufficient.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2018.
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9062724
