K821x#14
complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to him.
background
In 2005, Mr E bought some furniture in a shop and he took out a £2,149.00 loan to pay for it. 
At the same time Creation sold him a PPI policy. The policy cost £766.07, which was added 
to the loan and attracted interest. 
The loan had a 12-month ‘buy now pay later’ feature. Mr E wouldn’t pay interest if he paid off 
the credit before that date. Otherwise, he’d pay interest (including £683.12 of interest on the 
policy) over the remaining 36 months of the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr E’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had properly explained 
how much the policy would cost. And she didn’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if it 
had done so. Creation disagreed. It said the loan agreement and other paperwork Mr E was 
given would have made him aware of what the policy cost.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the 
information on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint because I agree with the adjudicator that Creation 
didn’t properly tell Mr E how much the policy cost. I say this because:

The credit agreement set out the PPI premium and the total cost. But the credit 
agreement didn’t show the PPI interest as a separate figure. It wasn’t reasonable to 
expect Mr E to work out the interest himself. He was entitled to expect all the 
important information about the cost of the policy to be in the loan agreement.

The statement of price did set out the interest. But it was on page two of the policy 
summary. It wasn’t easy to find, or where Mr E would expect it to be. And I can’t be 
sure it was drawn to his attention, particularly when he was in a shop and his 
attention was on buying furniture – not on insurance.

None of the paperwork set out the monthly cost of the policy. This would have been 
good practice and might have helped Mr E to understand what the policy was costing 
him.

The information on the credit agreement wasn’t enough to make Mr E aware of the 
effect the ‘buy now pay later’ period would have on the interest charged. If he didn’t 
pay the loan off during the first 12 months, the whole amount, including the PPI, 
attracted interest at 29.8%. This meant Mr E would pay a substantial extra amount of 
interest on the PPI cost in the first year, when the only benefit he gained was ‘free’ 
life cover.
Ref: DRN9352780
2

The PPI interest was high compared to the cost of the policy. And the total policy cost 
was high compared to the amount Mr E was borrowing. This was unusual and I think 
Mr E would have seen it as important information when deciding whether to buy the 
policy.

I don’t think Mr E would have bought the policy if he’d been made properly aware of 
how much it was going to cost him.
For these reasons I uphold Mr E’s complaint.
fair compensation
Mr E borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should’ve been. He 
paid more than he should’ve each month and it cost him more to repay the loan than it 
would’ve. So he needs to get back the extra he’s paid.
So, Creation should:

Work out and pay Mr E the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would’ve paid without PPI.  

Work out and pay the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr E paid from when he paid it until he gets it back. 
The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on†. If Mr E made 
a successful claim under the PPI policy, Creation can take off what he got for the claim from 
the amount it owes him.  † HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’ve decided to uphold Mr E’s complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision 
before 2 March 2015.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9352780
