K820x#14
complaint
Mr K has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a fixed sum loan 
agreement.
background
In January 2016, Mr K bought some furniture on a ‘buy now pay later’ arrangement. The 
terms of the arrangement required Mr K to either:

Make 36 monthly payments of £121.68 starting on 4 November 2016; or

Pay £2,508 on or before 7 October 2016 (the “special offer date”) and avoid all 
interest charges
Mr K paid nothing towards the loan by October 2106, and so interest was added. Mr K was 
unhappy about this and he complained to Creation. He explained he wasn’t happy that 
interest had been applied, that he’d been mis-advised as to the arrangement in store and 
that he hadn’t received the reminder letter (to pay the outstanding balance). 
Creation didn’t uphold Mr K’s complaint. It said that he had agreed to this particular 
arrangement, and that he’d been sent a reminder regarding the amount due in September 
2016. 
Mr K wasn’t happy with Creation’s response and so he referred his complaint to us. 
He explained he’d been ‘lured’ by the interest free element of the loan at the time he’d 
bought the furniture and said he could’ve paid for it up front. He said he’d been led to believe 
the loan was interest free, that he’d make monthly instalments via direct debit, and that the 
full amount would be paid off within a year.
He also said he hadn’t signed the credit agreement and that he’d never received the 
reminder letter in September 2016. Mr K explained he’d moved house since originally taking 
out the loan, and he thinks Creation should’ve tried to contact him by email or phone as well 
as by letter.
An investigator looked into Mr K’s complaint and didn’t think it should be upheld. She didn’t 
think there was enough evidence to show that Creation had done anything wrong. 
Mr K didn’t agree with the investigator’s opinion. He added that he had another direct debit 
of a similar amount going out of his account each month, which is why he didn’t notice he 
hadn’t been paying for the furniture. 
Because Mr K didn’t agree with the investigator’s opinion, his complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I’ve decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN9684275
2
I’ve first looked at Mr K’s complaint point regarding being misled at the point he took out the 
loan. I appreciate that Mr K says he had enough money to pay for his furniture outright, and 
while I accept this may have been the case, it doesn’t automatically follow that the loan was 
unsuitable. I’ve also not seen persuasive evidence that Mr K was put under pressure not to 
buy the furniture outright. 
Mr K also says he didn’t sign the agreement, but I can see it was signed electronically on     
7 January 2016. I’ve also seen a letter addressed to Mr K, also dated 7 January, which 
explained the buy now pay later arrangement in more detail. Creation says it would’ve given 
Mr K a copy of both the agreement and the letter at the time of the sale. But Mr K says 
Creation has told him this would’ve been emailed to him.
I can’t know for sure whether Creation gave Mr K this paperwork at the time of the sale, 
emailed it to him afterwards, or what was discussed. But I think it’s reasonable to conclude 
Mr K knew he’d taken out some kind of credit in order to pay for the furniture, given he hadn’t 
paid for it in full. And while Mr K says that he wasn’t expecting to pay for the furniture until 
April 2016 - when it was delivered - no payment was made in April either. So I’d have 
expected him to have made enquiries as to how he’d pay for the furniture around this time. 
I note Mr K has said he thought he was paying for the furniture monthly by direct debits, and 
that he hadn’t noticed he wasn’t because he had another direct debit for a similar amount 
leaving his account each month. But I think it’s reasonable to conclude Mr K would’ve 
noticed he was only paying half of what he expected to each month.
On the whole, I don’t find Mr K’s testimony particularly persuasive. So on balance, I think it’s 
more likely than not Mr K did sign the credit agreement electronically, and that Creation 
provided him with a copy of the agreement, and the letter explaining the arrangement at the 
time of the sale. And even if it didn’t, as I’ve explained, I’d have expected Mr K to make 
enquiries with Creation about this given he was in possession of the furniture before any 
payment was made.
Finally, Mr K says he didn’t receive the reminder letter from Creation in September 2016. I’ve 
seen a sample copy of this letter, and I can see from Creation’s records that this letter was 
sent to Mr K. Creation has explained this was sent to the only address it had for Mr K, and 
although this wasn’t his current address, Mr K has explained this was because he didn’t tell 
Creation he’d moved. 
But in any event, Mr K has said his friend was living at his old address and would’ve passed 
him any post. And if his friend didn’t do this, this isn’t the fault of Creation. I also don’t agree 
that Creation should have done more to ensure that Mr K received this letter and its 
contents; I think that sending this kind of correspondence by second class post is 
reasonable.
Mr K wants Creation to remove the interest and allow him to repay the loan at the amount of 
£2,508. But while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr K, for the reasons set out 
above, I won’t be asking Creation to do this, because I don’t think it has done anything 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Mr K’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
Ref: DRN9684275
3
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2017.
Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9684275
