K821x#15
complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd cannot locate a £37.50 payment she 
made into her account.
background
Mrs B went into her bank on 21 June 2018 and paid £37.50 cash into her Creation account. 
The bank stamped her statement acknowledging receipt of the money. Mrs B’s unhappy that 
despite providing it with evidence of the payment, Creation hasn’t applied the money to her 
account and has continued to chase her for its payment. It’s also applied interest and 
charges to her account and recorded adverse information on her credit file. She wants the 
money credited onto her account, the interest and charges refunded and her credit file 
amended.
Creation said in its final response that it hadn’t been able to trace the £37.50 payment Mrs B 
made through her bank into her account on 21 June 2018. 
Our investigator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:

Mrs B has provided a copy of her account monthly statement which was stamped by 
her bank acknowledging receipt of the £37.50 payment on 21 June 2018.

Mrs B has made enquiries with her bank which show the payment was made to the 
same account details as shown on her Creation statement. Creation is still trying to 
trace the payment. But on balance its more likely Mrs B’s bank allocated the money 
correctly, than not.

So, to put things right Creation should apply Mrs B’s £37.50 payment to her account 
and remove any late payment charges and interest that have accrued. It should also 
remove any negative information recorded about this from Mrs B’s credit file. And as 
Mrs B has been caused distress and inconvenience including by being continually 
chased for the debt, sent default letters and has had to call Creation she should also 
be paid £75 compensation.
Mrs B accepted the investigator’s view and said this matter shouldn’t have got this far. There 
was obvious evidence the payment was made. And this could’ve damaged her good credit 
record. 
Creation said it didn’t agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. It said it could 
understand how the investigator came to her view on the balance of probabilities but the 
payment still hasn’t been traced. It asked if Mrs B’s bank could trace it.
The investigator said Mrs B’s bank had confirmed that a trace on a payment of less than £40 
wouldn’t be possible. And that an audit trail has been competed with no evidence of any 
returned or bounced back payment. As far as the bank is concerned the payment has been 
cleared and paid correctly.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN9648465
2
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, I’ve made 
my decision based on what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
I agree with the investigator’s conclusions for the same reasons.
I’m satisfied on the available evidence that on 21 June 2018 Mrs B paid £37.50 cash into her 
bank to be credited to her Creation account. This is evidenced by the bank acknowledging 
receipt of this money by adding its official till stamp to Mrs B’s statement from Creation. And 
it appears the money was credited to the correct account details.
Although a payment of this size cannot be traced by Mrs B’s bank it has confirmed, albeit 
verbally and not in writing as Creation would like, that its audit trail doesn’t show any 
evidence of this payment being returned or bounced back. 
Creation still cannot trace the money. But that’s not Mrs B’s fault and I don’t think she should 
be disadvantaged because this payment has gone astray. 
Consequently I think, on balance, that it’s fair for Creation to apply Mrs B’s £37.50 payment 
to her account even though it can’t trace its receipt. I think it’s also reasonable for Creation to 
remove any late payment charges and interest applied to her account since 21 June 2018 
and to restore Mrs B’s otherwise good credit history by removing any negative information 
recorded about this matter from that date, from her Mrs B’s credit file.
Mrs B has co-operated with Creation throughout. This has included her sending it evidence 
of the bank’s receipt a number of times, repeatedly contacting Creation, dealing with its 
ongoing debt collection communications and taking steps to trace the payment with her own 
bank including visiting her branch a couple of times. She’s also been understandably worried 
that her otherwise good credit history has been affected.
Mrs B has clearly been put to some distress and considerable inconvenience as a result. I 
agree with the investigator that this warrants a payment of some compensation. The 
investigator felt £75 was a fair award when she issued her view in December 2018. But as 
this matter still hasn’t been resolved and Mrs B’s distress and inconvenience has continued 
for another couple of months since then I think that now isn’t quite enough. 
Overall I think it’s fair for the award of compensation now to be increased to £100.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should, if it hasn’t 
done so already:
1.
Apply Mrs B’s £37.50 payment to her account even though it can’t trace its receipt; 
2.
Remove any late payment charges and interest applied to Mrs B’s account since 21 
June 2018;
3.
Remove from Mrs B’s credit file any negative information recorded about this matter 
from that date; and 
4.
Pay Mrs B £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN9648465
3
Creation must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much it’s taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9648465
