K822x
complaint
Miss G had an account with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, and sent two cheques to it to 
clear an outstanding debt. She complains that Creation has not credited these cheques to 
her account, and is still pursuing her for payment of the debt. She wants the account to be 
recorded as paid.
background
Miss G told us that she supplied to Creation copies of the two cheques, and of her bank 
account statements. She said these showed the cheques had been cleared, and the money 
owed to Creation had been paid. The cheques were sent at the beginning and end of March 
2011.
Creation wrote to Miss G in January 2015, to say that it had been unable to locate these 
particular payments. She referred her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought her complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that Miss G had 
not written her reference number on the back of one cheque, but felt it was reasonable to 
conclude that she did make the payments, and that Creation did receive the money.
Our adjudicator said it would have been reasonable for the cheques to have been traced – 
but this did not happen, and Creation had not treated Miss G fairly. He recommended that:

The cheques should be credited to her Creation account

Creation should remove any interest or other charges that had been applied to her 
account because the cheques had not been credited

Creation should also correct the information it had recorded on Miss G’s credit file, to 
reflect these payments being made in March and April 2011

Miss G should receive £100 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this 
matter
Creation accepted our adjudicator’s recommendations. Miss G did not, saying the 
compensation proposed was insufficient. She wanted £500, and asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I find that I have come to the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator, for the same reasons.
I sympathise with Miss G. This matter has been troubling and upsetting her for about four 
years, and has included dealing with debt collectors. She thinks that Creation should be 
punished both for its initial errors, and for allowing a long running dispute to develop.
Ref: DRN9396148
2
But, as our adjudicator explained, the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. Our 
role is to achieve a fair and appropriate outcome to her complaint, rather than to punish. 
There is a technical note about trouble and upset on our public website, in which we 
describe:

how we decide whether to award compensation for distress, inconvenience, damage to 
reputation, pain and suffering

how we decide the amount to award, where compensation is appropriate

cases where we have awarded compensation
I feel that compensation of £100 in this instance (as recommended by our adjudicator) is 
appropriate, given the circumstances of Miss G’s complaint. It is consistent with our 
approach to awarding compensation, and with those case descriptions and awards.
my final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should:
1.
Credit Miss G’s cheques to her Creation account
2.
Remove any interest or other charges that have been applied to her account because 
the cheques had not been credited
3.
Correct the information it has recorded on Miss G’s credit file, to reflect these payments 
being made in March and April 2011
4.
Pay £100 in compensation directly to Miss G for the trouble and upset caused by this 
matter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2015.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9396148
