K821x#12
complaint
Mrs A complains about a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to 
her in May 2008 over the telephone by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. 
The policy covered a £5,000, five-year personal loan for debt consolidation. It provided life, 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover. Mrs A says the policy was mis-sold. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didn’t think Creation had done 
enough to make Mrs A aware that she wouldn’t be entitled to a proportionate refund if she 
refinanced the loan early and had to cancel the policy. And the adjudicator didn’t think Mrs A 
would have agreed to buy the policy, in her particular circumstances, if she had been given 
that information. 
Creation disagreed. It said documentation was issued to Mrs A after she gave her initial 
consent to the policy during the telephone call. The documents clarified the details of the 
policy and the onus was on Mrs A to read them and to ask for further information if she didn’t 
understand them. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, I have taken into account any 
relevant regulatory rules and guidance, as well as the law and good industry practice when 
the policy was sold.
We’ve been looking at complaints about the sale of PPI for several years now. And we have 
a well-established approach, which is published on our website. I think the relevant 
considerations in this case are materially the same as our published approach. 
Broadly speaking, what I need to consider here is:
•
whether Creation gave Mrs A advice and, if it did, whether it took adequate steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her needs; 
•
whether Creation gave Mrs A information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed choice about the policy she was buying; and
•
if there were faults with the way Creation sold the policy, whether Mrs A is worse off 
as a result (in other words would she have done something different – such as not 
buy the policy – but for any shortcomings?)
did Creation recommend the policy to Mrs A?
Creation says this sale took place on a non-advised basis. It hasn’t been able to provide a 
call recording. But it has provided a sales script it says was in use at the time. That script 
doesn’t suggest that advice would have been given. Creation has also provided documents it 
says would have been issued to Mrs A immediately after the call – including the credit 
agreement, and a key facts document containing a policy summary and statement of price. 
Ref: DRN9041277
2
These documents also tend to suggest that Creation didn’t give Mrs A any specific 
recommendation. 
Mrs A can’t remember whether she was given advice. She does remember that the policy 
was sold over the telephone. She says she doesn’t recall any information being given to her 
about the PPI, or the cost of it. 
Overall – based on the available evidence – I’m not persuaded that Creation gave Mrs A a 
specific recommendation to buy the policy. This means it didn’t have to take steps to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mrs A. But it did have to give her enough information to allow her 
to make an informed choice about the policy she was buying. 
did Creation give Mrs A enough information – and did it make a difference if not?
It’s here that I think Creation failed to live up to its responsibilities towards Mrs A, and why 
I’m not satisfied Mrs A made an informed choice to add the policy to her loan. I think 
Creation failed to properly bring to Mrs A’s attention that the policy didn’t offer a pro-rata 
refund if it was cancelled early. And I think this is important information which would have 
impacted on Mrs A’s decision to buy the policy if she had been made properly aware of it. 
When explaining why I’ve come to my findings it’s important to consider the type of policy 
Mrs A bought, and also the context in which she bought it. 
This was a single premium PPI policy. Single premium PPI policies are paid for in a very 
different way to most other insurance products. In particular, their cost structure is different – 
because the initial premium cost is often significantly increased by the interest added to it 
over the term of the loan. And the fact that the single premium (and the interest on it) is 
added to the loan up front – and is then paid back gradually over the term of the loan – 
means they often also have restrictive cancellation terms. Overall, this is not a 
straightforward way to pay for insurance and can lead to significant cost if cancelled early. 
This is not something Mrs A was likely to have much understanding of. 
The single premium cost of the policy sold to Mrs A was £1,215.76. A further £613.35 of 
interest added to the premium over the loan term brought the total cost of the PPI to 
£1,829.11. According to the policy summary and policy wording, it offered a 5% refund of the 
initial premium if the policy was cancelled after 36 months. It offered a 13% refund if 
cancelled at 24 months. 
Mrs A had telephoned Creation to apply for a £5,000 loan for debt consolidation. And she 
was taking it over a reasonably long period of time – five years. There was a high likelihood 
that she would look to re-finance the loan again at some point during that five-year period. 
So the impact of the policy’s cancellation provisions on her ability to refinance the loan – and 
what it might cost her to do so – was important information. Creation should have drawn 
Mrs A’s attention to this important information. 
As there’s no call recording, I can’t be sure what Mrs A was told during the telephone call. If 
I assume that the script was followed I can see that it required the call handler to tell Mrs A 
that she had a statutory right to cancel the policy for up to 30 days after the agreement 
started, at no cost. 
The script then required the call handler to explain what would happen if Mrs A cancelled 
outside that 30-day period. However, according to the script, Mrs A would only have been 
Ref: DRN9041277
3
told that she would “..only be entitled to a partial refund of the original premium”. There was 
no explanation of how that refund would be calculated, or what it might amount to. Nor was 
there any explanation that the ‘partial refund’ wouldn’t be calculated on a pro-rata basis (as 
Mrs A might otherwise reasonably have expected). So the information disclosed in the call 
script wasn’t enough to adequately draw Mrs A’s attention to the restrictive cancellation 
terms. 
The script does indicate that Mrs A would have been told to read the policy terms and 
conditions for details of ‘cancellation rights’. And Creation says documents were sent to 
Mrs A for further clarification after it ‘gained her initial consent to the PPI’. That is my concern 
here. Mrs A effectively agreed to have the PPI added to her loan during the telephone 
conversation with Creation. It’s reasonable to conclude that she would place greater reliance 
on what she was told during the telephone call, than on anything she received in writing 
afterwards. So it’s during the telephone call that Creation should have drawn Mrs A’s 
attention to the significant features of the policy, including the restrictive nature of the 
cancellation terms. I’m not satisfied that sending written information afterwards was enough 
to mitigate Creation’s failure to disclose this information orally. 
I also note that:

The policy summary does refer to the non-pro-rata refund and gives the 5% refund figure 
as an example. However, it’s not clear that Mrs A ever saw this document, or that it was 
adequately drawn to her attention. 

Even if she did see the policy summary, the refund information was positioned lower 
down the document after a lot of other information about exclusions and limitations. And 
it was in the section entitled “Early termination of loan” rather than in the “Right of 
cancellation” section the script suggests her attention would have been directed towards. 
So I’m not persuaded Mrs A would have easily found this information. 

The “Right of cancellation” section of the summary referred Mrs A to the policy document 
for further information. Again it isn’t clear that Mrs A received the policy document. But 
even if she did, the relevant information is provided on pages 18 and 19 of a 25-page 
document. I don’t consider that this information was prominently positioned, or 
adequately brought to Mrs A’s attention. 

Finally, it would have been difficult for Mrs A to work out from the percentage examples 
given how much she might lose in real terms if she cancelled the policy early.
Creation says the onus was on Mrs A to review the information given and ask for further 
information if she didn’t understand something. That isn’t correct. It was Creation’s 
responsibility to provide Mrs A with enough information about the main features and benefits 
of the policy to enable her to make an informed choice. For the reasons given above I find it 
failed to do so here. And, bearing in mind why Mrs A was taking out the loan and also the 
length of the term, I find that Mrs A wouldn’t have bought the policy, but for Creation’s failing.
fair redress
I find that, if Mrs A hadn’t bought the PPI policy, she would still have gone ahead with the 
loan. Therefore she should be put back in the position she would have been in if the 
PPI policy hadn’t been sold. The loan and the PPI policy had a term of five years so should 
by now have run their course. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should therefore:
Ref: DRN9041277
4
A.
Work out and repay the extra monthly payments paid by Mrs A because PPI was 
added to the loan by:
•
calculating how much the loan payments would have been if Mrs A had taken out the 
loan without PPI.
•
subtracting those amounts from what Mrs A actually paid and paying her the 
difference. 
•
paying Mrs A interest (simple, not compound) on each of these amounts at the rate 
of 8% a year from the date each payment was made to the date the redress is paid†.
B.
Write to Mrs A to set out the details of the calculations and amounts under (A).
† I understand Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is required to deduct basic rate tax from this 
part of the compensation. Whether Mrs A needs to take any further action will depend on her 
financial circumstances. More information about the tax position can be found on our 
website. Mrs A should refer back to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd if she is unsure of the 
approach it has taken and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want 
to know more about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Mrs A compensation calculated in accordance with the instructions set out above 
under ‘fair redress’.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9041277
