K822x
complaint
Mrs D has complained Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t refunded the money she’s 
paid for solar panels. She doesn’t think the solar panels are performing as she was told they 
would.
background 
In April 2014 Mrs D took out a loan with Creation for £10,450. This paid for solar panels to 
be fitted to her property. She believed any cost she was paying for the loan would be offset 
by the income she received for generating electricity and lower electricity bills.
She complained to the supplier, M, quite soon after the panels were fitted. She was 
concerned she was paying her monthly payments for the loan – over £136 a month – and 
she wasn’t able to afford it. M offered her £2,000 which she didn’t think was enough. She 
brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our adjudicator felt the solar panels weren’t performing as promised to Mrs D. She said the 
agreement should be cancelled allowing Mrs D to keep the panels. M asked us to review at 
least a year’s worth of income and electricity bills as they felt Mrs D was getting the 
predicted output.
Creation has asked for this complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the two main aspects of this complaint when I completed a provisional decision 
on 3 September 2015. This includes when Mrs D first took out the agreement and signed the 
contract as well as the performance of the solar panels.
It’s clear Mrs D was in two minds when she first signed up to the solar panels. She initially 
decided not to and then changed her mind. I believe she was influenced by being told they 
would be “cost neutral”. It’s also worth noting she agreed to get solar panels when she was 
off work. She has since stopped working and lost an income. I’m in no doubt she wouldn’t 
have entered into a long-term financial contract if she though it was going to cost her a lot of 
money.
I asked Creation about the affordability checks carried out on Mrs D but they weren’t able to 
provide any evidence about what these included. I wasn’t convinced they’d shown she could 
afford to pay for the solar panels. Since the provisional decision went out, Creation has 
provided us with more information on this aspect. They told us Mrs D and her husband had a 
household income of sufficient amount to cover what she was being asked to repay. Whilst 
Creation has pointed out Mrs D hasn’t missed a payment, I don’t believe her current 
household income is the same as she’s no longer working.
Based on the evidence, I believe Mrs D thought the solar panels weren’t going to cost her 
very much. The monthly payment to Creation would be offset by money from her electric 
company and lower bills. I have looked at her bills and the money she’s got from her electric 
company. Over the last year Mrs D has received payments totalling £562 for the electricity 
Ref: DRN9565103
2
generated by her panels. As M has said, this is more than was originally predicted to be 
generated.  
However I see Mrs D has had no savings on the cost of her bills. The amount of electricity 
used in the period November 2014 to June 2015 is not less than the period the year before 
the panels were fitted.
I’ve seen from Mrs D’s electricity bills she’s very conscious of her energy costs. She 
changes her tariff regularly to cut down what she has to pay. I can’t really see why she’d 
agree to pay for solar panels if they were going to cost her significantly more, as they have. 
So I believe she was told they’d be “cost neutral”.
That said I don’t believe the panels are massively underperforming.  
However I don’t believe Mrs D should have been given an agreement for 10 years when I’m 
satisfied there’s not enough evidence she could afford this. As Mrs D is getting a benefit 
from the panels, I don’t think it would be fair if she paid nothing for these whilst they remain.  
I’ve carefully considered what should be a fair outcome in this case. I’ve not changed my 
mind since my provisional decision but I’ve taken on board Creation’s views. I think Mrs D 
should pay 25% of the costs of the agreement. She was paying £16,470.29 so this means 
she will have to pay £4,117.58. This reflects the affordability issues and what she was told 
when she bought the panels in the first place.  
my final decision
For the reasons I’ve given, my final decision is to instruct Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
•
Recalculate Mrs D’s finance agreement so she only pays 25% of her original 
commitment;
•
Take off that total what’s she’s already paid since April 2014;
•
Provide her with a revised monthly amount she needs to pay for the remainder of the 
agreement; and
•
Update her credit record with the revised financial information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2015.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9565103
