K821x#9
summary of complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold her a Payment Protection 
Insurance (“PPI”) policy in connection with a loan to purchase furniture in 2005. 
my findings
In deciding what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of this case, I have 
considered the issues in accordance with our general approach to considering complaints 
about the mis-sale of PPI, which is well-documented. This includes taking into account the 
law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold and any regulatory rules and 
guidance relevant to this complaint. 
The key issues I need to consider in this complaint are:

whether Creation gave Mrs S information that was clear, fair, not misleading and 
sufficient to put her in a position to make an informed choice about whether to 
purchase the payment protection policy; and

whether in giving any advice or recommendation, Creation took adequate steps to 
ensure that the loan protection policy was suitable for Mrs S’s needs.
If there were shortcomings in the way in which Creation sold the policy, I then need to 
consider whether Mrs S is worse off as a result. That is, would she be in a different position 
now if there had not been any shortcomings?
The policy was purchased by Mrs S alongside a loan to buy furniture in 2005. The sale took 
place in a face to face meeting, and Creation has reported that this was not an advised sale. 
As such, Creation was not required to assess the suitability of the policy in relation to 
Mrs S’s personal circumstances. It was, however, required to provide sufficient, clear 
information about the policy and its terms and limitations to allow Mrs S to make an informed 
choice about whether to purchase the cover offered.
Because there is no record of what was said at the meeting I must decide, based on 
documentation and testimony, what is most likely to have happened.
Mrs S took out a loan of £ 2,486 to purchase a suite of furniture. Creation set up the loan 
over three years with a PPI policy at a cost of £892.94. This policy offered life, accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs S. The cost of the PPI was added to the original 
loan and attracted interest.
Having reviewed the information provided I outline my findings below.
Optional nature of the policy: Mrs S has reported that she felt pressured into taking the PPI 
at the meeting, having been told that she could not have the loan without the cover. I have 
carefully considered all the documentation that has been provided to me, and have seen no 
evidence to indicate that the optional nature of the policy was drawn to Mrs S’s attention. I 
am aware that Creation has said that the sales process would have required that the sales 
person drew the optional nature of the policy to her attention, but has provided no further 
evidence in this regard. I also note that an X had been drawn onto both the place to sign for 
the credit agreement and the place to sign for the PPI. While I accept that this may just have 
been done by the sales person to make it easier for Mrs S, I consider it is also equally 
possible that she was simply told where to sign, confirming her belief that the PPI was not 
Ref: DRN9211899
2
optional. On balance of probabilities, I am persuaded that Mrs S may not have been made 
aware that the policy was optional and that it was not a requirement of securing the loan. 
Cost of the policy: Having reviewed the Customer Credit Agreement I consider that Mrs S 
would have had difficulty understanding the true cost of the PPI. The cash cost of the PPI 
had been amalgamated with the cost of a warranty and the cost of the interest payable was 
not provided as a separate amount. I cannot know what was said to Mrs S during the 
meeting, and accept that the Creation representative may have described the costs in great 
detail. However, on the evidence before me, I am not persuaded that Mrs S would have 
realised that the PPI had added over £1,689 to her borrowing. Having reviewed records of 
conversations that Mrs S had with our adjudicator, I am persuaded that cost would have 
been an important factor for her. She was working long hours in a fairly low-paid job, and I 
am not persuaded that Mrs S would have agreed to purchase the PPI had the full impact 
upon the cost of the loan and her monthly repayments been made clear to her. The full cost 
of the PPI almost equalled the cost of the furniture that Mrs S had gone there to buy. I am 
not persuaded that she would have purchased the PPI had the full cost been made clear to 
her.
Based on the evidence before me, and as outlined above, I am not persuaded that Creation 
treated Mrs S fairly. I am satisfied that if Creation had properly informed Mrs S at the time 
that she was taking the loan, she would not have gone ahead with the PPI policy. It follows 
that I uphold this complaint.
redress
I consider that the appropriate approach to fair compensation in this case is to require 
Creation to compensate Mrs S by putting her (so far as is now practicable) in the position 
she would have been in, had she not taken out the policy. I understand that the loan and PPI 
ran to term.
In this case Creation should:
(A)
calculate, and pay Mrs S the amount of the net payments she made in respect of the 
PPI (including any interest and charges) by comparing:

the payments actually made; 
­
the payments which would have applied if Mrs S had taken the loan without PPI; 
and
­
add interest on each of these net payments at the rate of 8% per year simple†  
from the date of each payment to the date the compensation is paid; and
(B)
set out in writing for Mrs S the details of the calculations under (A).
† – This part of the compensation may be subject to income tax. The treatment of this part of 
the compensation in Mrs S’s hands will depend on whether Creation has deducted basic rate 
tax from the compensation and Mrs S’s financial circumstances. More information about the 
tax position can be found on our website at: 
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/guidance/comp_tax.htm. 
Mrs S should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and 
Creation and Mrs S should contact HM Revenue and Customs if they want to know more 
about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Ref: DRN9211899
3
my decision 
Based on the evidence provided to me by both parties, and reflecting upon what is most 
likely to have happened, I consider that the complaint should be upheld and that Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should compensate Mrs S as outlined above. I make no further 
award against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Roxy Boyce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9211899
