K820x#14
complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd took payment from his account even 
though he had returned the item the agreement related to. He also complains that Creation 
did not provide him with the service it should have once he had raised his complaint.
background
Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in February 2016 to acquire an 
item. However when the item was delivered it was not fit for purpose and so he rejected it. 
He says the retailer told him that his direct debit had been cancelled and no payment would 
be taken. Mr C says he checked his account for the following two months and no payment 
was taken and so he thought the issue had been resolved. However he then found out that 
his account had been placed on hold after which payments were taken totalling over £320.
Creation says that Mr C signed an agreement to acquire an item at the retailer’s store and 
that this included a direct debit mandate. It says it received notification from the retailer that 
the item had been delivered on 3 May 2016. It says it was not aware that Mr C did not have 
the item until he contacted it on 5 June 2017. Creation says that it contacted the retailer to 
say the agreement was still live and that it hadn’t received any cancellation request. 
Following this Mr C’s agreement was cancelled on 15 June and a refund for the payments 
he had made was issued on the same day. It also said that it would remove this agreement 
from Mr C’s credit file.
Our investigator did not think that Creation had done anything wrong and so he did not 
recommend that this complaint be upheld.
Mr C did not accept our investigator’s view. He said that the issues he experienced were due 
to faults by both Creation and the retailer and that both parties should be considered in the 
complaint. He said that the retailer put his account on hold for the first three months and so 
as no payments were taken at that time he thought there was no issue with his rejection of 
the item. He said that he didn’t receive any notification from Creation that it was going to 
start taking payments and wanted to know what confirmation Creation received from the 
retailer about the goods being accepted before payments were taken.
Mr C was also upset by the service he received from Creation when he raised the issue with 
him. He said he was required to prove everything he said and that the relatively short 
timescale to resolution was due to him and not Creation which he said were unhelpful. Mr C 
also said that he should not have had to deal with an arrears issue give the situation on his 
account.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is upset by what has happened since he rejected the item he 
acquired from the retailer. I appreciate that Mr C wants us to look into both the actions of the 
retailer and the actions of Creation. The retailer acted as a credit broker for the agreement 
and so its role as a credit broker can be considered, however we cannot consider the wider 
service it provided. 
Ref: DRN9294022
2
This decision relates to the actions of Creation and assesses whether or not it did anything 
wrong and, if so, what it needs to do to put this right. My role is not to punish Creation but if a 
mistake has been made to ensure that Mr C is put back in the position he would have been 
had this not happened.
In this case Mr C rejected an item and was told that his agreement had been cancelled. 
Unfortunately, the retailer did not tell Creation that the agreement had been cancelled. 
Because of this the agreement remained live until Mr C contacted Creation to explain the 
issue.
Mr C has asked for an explanation about what information Creation received from the retailer 
to start the payments and why he did not receive notification that payments were about to 
commence. He has also asked for information about why his account was put on hold. 
Creation has provided a screen shot showing that it received an automatic confirmation from 
the retailer on 3 May that the item had been delivered. It said that it usually takes payments 
four weeks after this confirmation is received. In this case it has explained that on 13 May a 
three month payment break was applied to Mr C’s account. It said this happened as the 
retailer requested the agreement be cancelled but that it was told the retailer would need to 
cancel the agreement. The hold was applied at the retailer’s request.
Based on the information received from Creation, it appears that the process for cancelling 
the agreement was not completed correctly by the retailer during the three month period. 
Because of this payments then commenced. While I can see why payments commenced 
given the notification Creation had received in regard to the agreement cancellation I think it 
could have done more to assist in this process.
Once Creation was made aware that Mr C did not have the item it contacted the retailer and 
the agreement was cancelled within 10 days of Mr C’s first contact. I find this was a 
reasonably timely response to the issue. At this time the payments Mr C had made under the 
agreement were also refunded and Creation said that Mr C’s credit file would be amended to 
remove the agreement. Again I find this reasonable. 
Mr C has said his account went overdrawn while these payments were being taken and that 
he incurred charges. I note that in the letter from the retailer to Mr C dated 14 August 2017, 
the retailer apologised for the inconvenience caused by the payments being taken from Mr C 
and offered to pay him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It also said that if Mr C provided 
evidence of the charges he had incurred due to payments being taken from his account it 
could consider these. As I have not seen any evidence of the charges Mr C incurred, I have 
not been able to consider these further.
Mr C has complained about the service he received through this process including the fact 
that he was chased for payment after cancelling his direct debit and told a charge would be 
applied for arrears on his account. I have looked through Mr C’s timeline of events following 
his initial contact with Creation. I understand why Mr C was upset that he was told the 
agreement could not be cancelled until the retailer had contacted Creation about this and 
that Creation would not contact the store but that Mr C needed to do this. 
I also understand why Mr C was upset about the contact he received about his account 
being in arrears. I appreciate that this was process was triggered by Mr C cancelling his 
direct debit. However, given the complaint Mr C had raised about his payment being wrongly 
debited I think that Creation could have done more to prevent him being contacted about 
Ref: DRN9294022
3
arrears until it was clear on what needed to happen with is agreement. I do however accept 
that this issue was resolved quickly.
Overall, while I can see why Mr C has been upset by this process, I find that the actions 
taken by Creation have put him back in the position he would have been had the agreement 
been cancelled when it should have been. I think that Creation could have provided Mr C 
with better service but the issues have arisen due to the retailer not properly cancelling the 
agreement and Creation acted in a timely way once it was aware of the situation.
Creation has discussed compensation with the retailer and has said that the retailer has 
agreed to pay Mr C £250 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused. 
Creation has also said that in the event the retailer fails to pay the £250 to Mr C it will make 
the payment. Again I find this a fair response to this complaint.
Mr C has been informed of the compensation offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should ensure that Mr C is paid 
compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset he has been caused. In the event this is not 
paid by the retailer, Creation should pay this amount to Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2018.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9294022
