complaint
Ms Q complains about contractual interest Creation Consumer Finance Ltd added to her credit 
agreement when she did not settle it within the ‘buy now pay later’ period. She says she never 
received a reminder letter Creation issued and is unhappy that it will not compromise with her.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator found that the date the balance had to be paid by was clear in the agreement Ms Q 
signed. And she was satisfied Creation had sent a reminder letter a month before that date. She 
felt Creation was therefore entitled to hold Ms Q to the terms of the agreement, as she had not 
paid by the required date. Ms Q says she had every intention to pay on time. She feels she is being 
asked to pay an unfair amount of interest for being one month late paying. 
my final decision
I have considered what Ms Q and Creation have said and provided, to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint. 
I don’t doubt that Ms Q intended to pay before the buy now pay later period ended and that she is 
frustrated with the situation she finds herself in. But she did not pay in time. She says she was the 
victim of unfortunate circumstance and postal problems. However, I accept that Creation did issue 
a reminder letter, which was all it was required to do. As Ms Q did not settle in time the full amount 
of interest became due and Ms Q has not yet paid that interest. I realise Ms Q would now like 
Creation to offer some sort of compromise as a goodwill gesture. But it does not wish to and I 
cannot require it to. Creation has acted in accordance with the terms of the agreement and it is 
entitled to hold Ms Q to those terms. 
I also find that it provided correct information to Ms Q about what she would need to pay to settle 
the agreement early; as well as giving clear dates for when those early settlement quotes expired. 
Creation does not have to now stand by any previous early settlement quotes given, as Ms Q did 
not settle the agreement before those quotes expired.
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no order or award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms Q either to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2013.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service
Ref: DRN9695612
The ombudsman may complete this section where appropriate – adding comments or further 
explanations of particular relevance to the case. 
ombudsman notes 
what is a final decision?

A final decision by an ombudsman is our last word on a complaint. We send the final decision 
at the same time to both sides – the consumer and the financial business.  

Our complaints process involves various stages. It gives both parties to the complaint the 
opportunity to tell us their side of the story, provide further information, and disagree with 
our earlier findings – before the ombudsman reviews the case and makes a final decision. 

A final decision is the end of our complaints process. This means the ombudsman will not be 
able to deal with any further correspondence about the merits of the complaint. 
what happens next? 

A final decision only becomes legally binding on the financial business if the consumer 
accepts it. To do this, the consumer should sign and date the acceptance card we send with 
the final decision – and return it to us before the date set out in the decision. 

If the consumer accepts a final decision before the date set out in the decision we will tell the 
financial business – it will then have to comply promptly with any instructions set out by the 
ombudsman in the decision. 

If the consumer does not accept a final decision before the date set out in the decision, neither 
side will be legally bound by it.
Ref: DRN9695612
