K820x#14
complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s response to his complaint about the 
quality of a bed he bought using finance it provided to him. He’s assisted in bringing his 
complaint by his mother, Ms B.
background
Mr S bought a bed with an integrated TV from A, a retailer, using finance from Creation. The 
bed was delivered on the same day that Mr S was due to go on holiday. A final installation 
check sheet was completed by the delivery team with every section ticked, and this was 
signed by someone at the delivery address as confirmation of delivery and installation.
Two days later, A was told there was a gap between the mattress and the bedframe. When 
Mr S arrived back from holiday, he noticed damage to the TV; which he also reported to A. 
A few months later, an engineer inspected the bed and agreed that the mattress needed 
replacing because it was too short. But A didn’t accept responsibility for the TV damage.
Several months later, Mr S complained to Creation, under the provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. That section says that, in certain circumstances, a finance 
provider can be responsible for a breach of contract by the supplier. Because there was no 
evidence to prove that the damage was there at the point of delivery, Creation said it 
wouldn’t help. Mr S and his family were unhappy with Creation’s response, and referred the 
matter to us.
In the meantime, Creation arranged for inspection of the bed. The engineer found that the 
trim at the bottom and side of the TV was coming away. He couldn’t find a cause. A second 
engineer visited. He found that the TV had an unsuitable power cable attached causing it to 
catch when being lifted and lowered. A confirmed that a 90 degree angle cable adaptor 
comes as standard with the TV bed. But this wasn’t in place when the engineer visited.
Mr S and his family made the following points:

when they first inspected the bed they found the TV “smashed, completely smashed”. 
They later described the TV as being “cracked”, and said that the lifting mechanism 
was now broken.

there is a gap between the mattress and the bedframe. The bedframe is shaky and 
music played through the built-in speakers cuts out.

the bed is not worth the price they paid for it (£3,970); they found it upsetting when 
the bed was reduced in price to £1,500.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts. I said:
“I’m sorry to hear that Mr S hasn’t had the use and enjoyment he expected from the 
bed. But I’m not satisfied that the evidence shows there was any fault with the 
manufacturing, delivery or installation of the bed, other than the mattress gap that the 
supplier has agreed to deal with.
Ref: DRN9426229
2
At the time of installation, a check sheet was completed which confirmed that the TV 
was installed correctly and that the power cables were appropriately positioned. The 
damage to the TV wasn’t reported until 17 days after installation. Although I 
understand that Mr S was on holiday during this time, I believe that it’s more than 
likely that the bed was looked at by his family members in order for them to identify 
and report the mattress gap. It’s not unreasonable to expect that if the TV was 
damaged at this time, Mr S’s family would’ve noticed it.
I’m also mindful that the descriptions of the damage to the TV have varied 
considerably over time. These differences in description make it very difficult to 
determine when or how any damage was caused. The TV has been described as 
being “completely smashed”, as having a crack in the screen giving rise to colour 
disturbance when turned on, as having a crack in the trim at the lower edge, and as 
having lost the “bottom edge of the outer plastic frame”. In May 2017, Mr S told the 
investigator that the damage was limited to the screen, and that it wasn’t really visible 
when the TV was off. Yet, the photographs and reports I have seen suggest that the 
damage is a crack in the trim.
Whatever the nature of the damage, I’ve seen no convincing evidence of how or 
when it occurred. But I think that the supplier’s check sheet is a good indication that it 
wasn’t present at installation. I note also that Ms B told the investigator that Mr S had 
used the bed “when everything was working”. And this does point to the bed being in 
working order at the beginning.
The investigator upheld Mr S’s complaint because she thought it likely that the 
damage to the TV flowed from the wrong power cable being used at installation. I 
don’t agree that the evidence shows this. Had the wrong power cable been used at 
installation, I’d have expected Mr S to make some mention of the lift mechanism 
juddering or the TV catching on the housing at the foot-end of the bed. But this didn’t 
feature as any part of his evidence to us. And I’ve seen no evidence that this issue 
was reported to the supplier either.
It wasn’t until April 2017 that Ms B first mentioned to us that the lift mechanism might 
be broken, and then only when specifically asked by the investigator. I also note that 
the independent engineer who inspected the TV in June 2017 made no mention of 
the lift mechanism juddering or there being a problem with the power cable. And I 
would’ve expected the engineer to do so, given he identified the damage as affecting 
the “trim at the bottom and side” of the TV. He also inspected the TV whilst it was 
within the bed and elevated on the lift mechanism. The horizontal position of the 
power cable is obvious in the pictures taken by the July engineer, and yet it was not 
referred to at all by the engineer in June. There’s also some discrepancy about the 
functioning of the lift mechanism itself. Ms B has said that it doesn’t work at all; that 
the TV “doesn’t come up or down”. But the engineer who inspected it in July found it 
capable of lifting and lowering the TV; it juddered but it did lift the TV.
In my opinion, the fact that the 90 degree adaptor wasn’t in place at the engineer’s 
inspection in July 2017, doesn’t mean that it wasn’t in place at the time of installation. 
It’s relevant that the supplier says the adaptor comes as standard and the check 
sheet shows that the cables where appropriately positioned at installation. There 
were no complaints of juddering earlier. And between installation and the July 2017 
inspection, Mr S and Ms B had dismantled and reassembled the bed. The TV had 
also been completely removed by them from its housing at least once. So I think it’s 
Ref: DRN9426229
3
more likely than not that the adaptor was lost or removed at some point after 
installation.
I appreciate that Mr S is very unhappy with the TV bed and regrets this purchase; 
but, on what I’ve seen so far, I don’t think Creation has done anything wrong in 
refusing to replace the bed or to allow Mr S to reject and return the bed.”
responses to my provisional decision
Creation accepted my provisional decision. But Mr S and Ms B didn’t. They maintained the 
TV had never been used and still had protective film on it. Ms B referred to the original 
inspection, instructed by A, which she felt supported her position. And she asked that I listen 
to the calls they made to A when they first reported the damage.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, although I know that my 
decision will disappoint Mr S, I do not uphold his complaint.
Noting Ms B’s comments in response to my provisional decision, I have seen the report 
produced from the first inspection. I’ve also listened to the call recordings A still holds. 
Having done so, I don’t find these give me reason to reach a different conclusion. I would, 
though, make the following observations.
At the first inspection, in addition to his finding about the mattress, the engineer also 
checked the TV. He found that whilst the sound worked, “the screen [was] cracked internally 
and remain[ed] blank”. The engineer offered no explanation as to the cause of the damage 
to the TV. And the only image of the TV attached to the report doesn’t make clear the 
location of the damage. Although this evidence helps to establish the nature of the damage, 
and confirms that it was present a few months after delivery, it doesn’t help to identify how or 
when it occurred, which is the key issue in Mr S’s dispute with Creation.
The only information the call recordings add is that Mr S’s partner says, “when we received 
the bed, that same day, we didn’t really have time to inspect the bed … we went on our 
holiday …”  This strongly suggests that Mr S and/or his partner were there at the point of 
delivery. So they had the opportunity to check the condition of the bed and TV, even if they 
were preparing to go on holiday. They said they didn’t do this because they assumed the TV 
would be fine. That may well be the case, but taking into account the fully completed 
checklist, I’m not persuaded that the problems with the TV were present when the bed was 
delivered.
Because of this, I can see why Creation has taken the stance it has. So while I realise that 
leaves Mr S in the unfortunate position of having a damaged TV, I don’t require Creation to 
take steps to rectify that situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2018.
Ref: DRN9426229
4
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9426229
