K821x#14
complaint
Mr T says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold an insurance policy to him. 
background
In 2008 Mr T took out a loan with Creation over the phone. At the same time Creation sold 
him a policy providing life, personal accident and hospitalisation cover. Mr T borrowed extra 
to pay for the policy, which was to be repaid – with interest – over the loan term.   
Our adjudicator upheld Mr T’s complaint. She didn’t think Creation had made Mr T clearly 
aware that the policy wouldn’t cover the full loan term, or how much it cost compared to the 
benefit he might get back. And she didn’t think Mr T would have bought the policy if he’d 
known these things.
Creation said it was Mr T’s responsibility to read the information it gave him and ask 
questions if anything wasn’t clear. 
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Mr T bought wasn’t a traditional payment protection insurance (PPI) policy, as it 
didn’t give unemployment or sickness cover. But I think the relevant issues to take into 
account are materially the same as our well-established approach to PPI complaints, which 
is published on our website. So I’ve kept that in mind when looking at Mr T’s complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold Mr T’s complaint.
Creation sold the policy to Mr T over the phone. It hasn’t got a copy of the call recording. But 
it’s provided a call script it says would have been followed. Looking at that script, and the 
paperwork Creation says it sent to Mr T after the call, I have concerns about whether Mr T 
would have understood that he had a choice about buying the policy. But I also share the 
adjudicator’s concerns about how the policy was explained to Mr T; particularly the cost of it 
compared to the level of benefit it might give him. 
The policy cost over £3,500. Around £1,100 of that was interest on the single premium. But 
the script doesn’t suggest that Mr T would have been given either the single premium cost or 
the interest figure over the phone. And the interest also wasn’t shown separately in the loan 
agreement he received afterwards. 
Creation says the interest was given separately in the ‘statement of price’, which was 
included in the policy summary it says would have been sent to Mr T. But I can’t be sure 
Mr T did get that document. And even if he did, I’m not satisfied he would have known he 
should look at page two of the policy summary to find important information about the cost of 
the policy. That wasn’t a prominent location, or where Mr T would reasonably expect to find 
it. He was entitled to expect all the important information about the cost of the policy to be in 
the loan agreement.  
Mr T initially borrowed £10,600 (excluding the cost of the policy). If he died the policy would 
pay off the outstanding loan balance. If he had an accident which led to the loss of a limb, or 
Ref: DRN9278718
2
the loss of sight in an eye, the policy would pay £2,000. Cover under that part of the policy 
would then end. Otherwise it offered a daily benefit (paid monthly) if Mr T was in hospital for 
more than 5 days in a row (to a maximum of 12 months benefit per claim). 
The circumstances in which the policy would pay benefit were therefore limited. And the 
policy also only provided cover for 60 months, when the loan was for 84 months. That also 
wasn’t clear in the call script. And, whilst it was in the policy summary, again it wasn’t 
prominent.
To make back the cost of the policy Mr T would have to claim for over 15 months under the 
hospitalisation benefit – or claim under the personal accident cover and also successfully 
claim for several months under the hospitalisation cover. The likelihood of him doing that 
was remote. I’ve taken the life cover into consideration, but it seems that was of little use to 
Mr T, given his circumstances. 
It was Creation’s responsibility to give Mr T enough information about the main features and 
benefits of the policy to enable him to decide whether the policy was right for him. Creation 
should have ensured his attention was drawn to the important information about the policy 
which would be likely to affect his decision making. I’m not satisfied that Creation met its 
responsibility to give Mr T enough information to make an informed choice. 
I have no reason to doubt that the cost of the policy would have been important to Mr T. 
Given the relatively limited cover the policy offered compared to the cost of it, I don’t think he 
would have seen the policy as offering any real value to him if he’d properly understood the 
cost of it. So I’m not persuaded he would have bought it if not for Creation’s failings.
what Creation should do to put things right
Mr T borrowed extra to pay for the policy, so his loan is bigger than it should’ve been. And 
he’s been paying more than he should’ve each month. So Mr T needs to get back the extra 
he’s paid and start paying what he should’ve been paying all along. 
So Creation should:

Change the amount Mr T has left to pay on the loan so his payments are the same as 
they would be without the policy.

Work out and pay Mr T the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he would’ve paid each month without the policy.

Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr T paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year†.

Show Mr T how it worked this out and the amount he still owes. And show Mr T how 
much his future payments will be.

If Mr T made a successful claim under the policy, Creation can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN9278718
3
my final decision
I uphold Mr T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay Mr T the compensation 
I’ve described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2015.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9278718
