K820x#14
complaint
Miss H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to give her a correct settlement 
figure so her loan wasn’t paid off as she’d thought it would be and is now showing in arrears. 
background
Miss H had a loan with Creation. In February 2018 she went online to pay off the loan early. 
She was given a settlement figure of £10,367.26 which she paid and she received a 
confirmation the loan had been paid off. But a direct debit of £291.23 was due the same day. 
This wasn’t included in the settlement figure. Miss H cancelled the direct debit so this 
payment didn’t go through and this left Miss H’s account in arrears.
Creation contacted Miss H in March 2018 to tell her there were arrears on the account. But 
she said she’d paid it off and had confirmation of that so she shouldn’t have to pay any 
more. She made a complaint but Creation rejected it because it said she should’ve known 
the settlement figure didn’t include the direct debit that was due. So Miss H came to this 
service. 
Our investigator didn’t think the complaint should be upheld so Miss H asked for review by 
an ombudsman. I thought the complaint should be upheld in part so I issued a provisional 
decision. Creation provided feedback on the provisional decision but as both Creation and 
Miss H accepted the decision overall, my findings have not changed.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The figures on Miss H’s account show that a further £291.23 was due the day Miss H made 
her settlement payment though it wasn’t taken because the direct debit was cancelled. 
However, when Miss H looked at her account online, she clearly intended to pay off the loan 
and paid the settlement amount she was given. She wasn’t told the settlement figure didn’t 
include the direct debit that was pending. And she was given a confirmation she’d paid off 
the loan. 
Creation said she should’ve known she owed more because a higher figure was quoted 
when she’d consulted her account previously. But when she contacted Creation earlier, she 
was just enquiring about her interest rates so I don’t think she would’ve noticed the 
settlement figure was higher. I think Miss H acted in good faith when she cancelled the direct 
debit as she believed the account was settled but the information Creation gave her wasn’t 
clear.
In the circumstances, I think Creation’s poor communication led to Miss H paying less than 
she should’ve to settle the debt. But this created a problem for Miss H as the account then 
went into arrears. This was worrying for her as she believed she’d paid the debt off but her 
credit record was showing the account in arrears. Credit records are designed to provide an 
accurate picture of the way a person manages their finances. But in this case, I find any 
arrears have arisen because of Creation’s poor communication about the settlement figure, 
not because Miss H failed to make payments on her account. Therefore, to put things right, I 
find that Creation should write off the arrears and amend Miss H’s credit record so it reflects 
her intention to pay off the loan in full in February 2018.
Ref: DRN9182928
2
my final decision
For the reasons given above, it’s my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part as 
Miss H’s account went into arrears due to poor communication from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should write off the outstanding debt and 
amend Miss H’s credit file to show that the debt was settled in full in February 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9182928
