K820x#14
complaint
Miss H complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a debt she owed 
them and about information they provided to credit reference agencies.
background
Miss H took out a finance agreement with Creation in June 2018 to pay for goods she 
bought from a retailer.
When signing up to the agreement, Miss H gave her postal address and her bank account 
details and agreed to set up a direct debit to make the regular payments.
Miss H says Creation set up the account against the wrong postal address. She says this led 
to the direct debit failing. She says she didn’t know about this until she was contacted by a 
debt collection agency in January 2019.
Miss H has now paid off the loan. But she’s unhappy Creation have reported her missed 
payments to credit reference agencies. She says this has affected her credit rating and led 
to other businesses suspending her accounts.
She’s also unhappy that Creation used the debt collection agency to try to retrieve the 
money.
Miss H complained to Creation. When they didn’t uphold her complaint, she brought it to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong. 
Miss H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I’m not going to uphold it and I’ll explain 
why.
The direct debit Miss H originally set up to make the payments didn’t fail because she 
changed address. Creation have provided evidence they received an instruction from 
Miss H’s bank that the direct debit was cancelled – by Miss H. This meant they couldn’t 
collect the scheduled payments.
If Miss H didn’t instruct her bank to cancel the direct debit, then it appears they’ve made an 
error and she can make a complaint against them. But I can’t hold Creation responsible for 
any error Miss H’s bank may have made.
Miss H’s credit agreement requires her to notify Creation if she moves address – so that they 
can contact her if they need to. She didn’t do so. 
Creation have provided evidence that they sent several letters to the address Miss H 
provided and made several phone calls to the number she’d given them. They were hoping 
to inform her she wasn’t making the payments. They had no response to the letters, no 
returned mail and no answer or reply to their phone calls.
Ref: DRN9408941
2
Miss H gave her new address as the delivery address for the goods she bought from the 
retailer. I’m satisfied, on that basis, she likely knew when signing the credit agreement – or 
very soon after that – that she was moving. And it would or should have occurred to her 
when she gave the delivery address that she’d given a different address in the credit 
agreement.
Miss H says the first she knew about her direct debit payments failing was when she was 
contacted by the debt collection agency – several months later. I assume she receives bank 
statements and/or can check her account on-line. It’s not unreasonable to say that she 
should have noticed the missed direct debit payments.
Miss H has objected to Creation referring her debt to the debt collection agency to trace her 
on Creation’s behalf. But Creation had a customer who owed them money who didn’t appear 
to be at the address she’d given them and wasn’t answering calls made to the number she’d 
given them. In the circumstances, I don’t think it was unreasonable for them to ask for 
assistance from a specialist agency.
After the agency contacted Miss H, Creation recalled the account from the agency and dealt 
with the matter themselves – which avoided further costs for Miss H. And meant she didn’t 
have to deal with the agency for any longer than was necessary.
Miss H did miss the payments Creation reported to the credit reference agencies. Creation 
are required to provide accurate credit reference information. I’m satisfied the missed 
payments weren’t due to any error on Creation’s part. And they are an accurate reflection of 
Miss H’s creditworthiness. I can’t say it’s unfair or unreasonable for Creation to report this 
information – or to decide not to remove it now.
Miss H has been represented in this complaint by a friend. He’s said we’ve not conducted a 
proper investigation because we haven’t checked that the signature on the credit agreement 
is Miss H’s. 
I should be absolutely clear that I’ve taken that into account in making my decision. When 
Miss H made her complaint to us, she said that she’d taken out the agreement with Creation 
and set up a direct debit - which she said had failed because of the change of address. 
She’s taken the goods provided by the retailer and she’s now settled the debt. 
I’m satisfied beyond any doubt at all that Miss H took out the agreement and owed the 
money to Creation. And there was absolutely no reason at all for us to question the signature 
on the credit agreement. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Miss H’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9408941
