K820x#10
complaint
I understand in 2006 Mr K bought goods from an electrical shop. In order to do so he 
applied, through the shop’s sales process, for a loan from Creation Consumer Finance 
(Creation). As part of this sale, he was sold a single premium payment protection insurance 
policy (‘PPI’). Mr K says this was mis-sold because he was not aware he had taken the 
policy out and does not believe it was suitable for him because he was self employed at the 
time. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in March 2013. I said I had carefully considered all of the 
available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I also took into account relevant regulatory rules as well as 
the law and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold.
Having done so, I was not minded to uphold Mr K’s complaint. In particular, I concluded that:

there was some evidence he agreed to take out the policy because he had ticked and 
signed the section of the credit agreement relating to PPI; 

I could not be sure Creation met his information needs but I did not consider the policy 
conditions (particularly as they affect the self employed) would have significantly 
restricted Mr K’s ability to make a successful unemployment claim; 

he did not appear to have a strong need for flexibility when taking out the policy, so 
further information about its restrictive cancellation terms was unlikely to have affected 
his decision to take it out; 

although it did not appear he had been provided with full information about the cost of 
the policy, I was not persuaded he would have acted differently if this had been made 
clearer to him.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished me to consider before 
I reached a final decision. Creation confirmed it was satisfied with the provisional decision 
and had no further comments to make. Mr K did provide a further response. In summary he 
said:

he intended to pay off the loan before the end of the deferred period but as he was late 
in doing so decided to let it run;

he would not have knowingly taken out this policy if he had been aware of the exclusions 
and does not believe it was ever suitable for him;

the paperwork does not show the monthly cost of the PPI; 

when he tried to make a claim, it was not made clear to him what he would need to do in 
order to meet the policy terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN9171626
2
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I agree Mr K was not provided with clear information about the cost of the policy. However, 
the question I must then consider is whether he would have decided against taking it out if 
he had understood more about this. I appreciate Mr K’s initial intention was to pay off the 
loan before the end of the deferred period, but as he did not then it seems to me he had a 
potential need to ensure he was able to meet his ongoing repayments. And it does not 
appear he had any other policies in place that would have enabled him to do so. In addition, 
as he was self employed he would not have received any employer benefits if he was not 
working. 
So it does appear he had some need of the cover the policy offered and I do not consider it 
implausible he might have decided to take this out (which his signature on the credit 
agreement indicates he agreed to do). And I understand the monthly cost of the policy was 
£29.40. This does not appear unaffordable for someone in Mr K’s circumstances. Given he 
appears to have had some need of cover, I do not feel I could safely conclude additional 
information on cost would have affected his decision to take it out. 
I appreciate Mr K does not believe the policy was suitable for him but, as this was an 
information only sale, Creation was not required to assess this. However, I accept it may not 
have drawn the policy exclusions, in particular as they relate to the self employed, to his 
attention. But given these did not, for example, require him to permanently cease trading, 
I do not consider someone in Mr K’s circumstances would have been put off taking out the 
policy if they had understood more about them. If Mr K believes he was provided with 
inaccurate information when he did come to make a claim then it is of course open to him to 
make a separate complaint about this issue.
Ref: DRN9171626
3
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN9171626
