
--------------------------
DRN-1084239
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd decreased his credit limit without 
notifying him. 
What happened
Mr L holds a running-account credit agreement with Creation. Initially, his credit limit was 
£2,000. Creation decreased this to £600 in October 2018. Mr L says it didn't notify him at the 
time, thereby breaching the agreement. He says he only found out his limit had been 
reduced in April 2019, when he tried to use his Creation account to buy some items in a 
store. He’s now stopped making payments towards the agreement – and he thinks Creation 
should also refund the payments he made from October 2018 to April 2019. 
Creation maintains that it notified Mr L of the credit limit reduction at the time. It’s also 
pointed out that he was still able to make purchases on the account. So it doesn't think the 
limit reduction caused him to fall into arrears; it says this happened because he chose to 
stop making payments. It still considers him liable for his borrowing. 
Our investigator didn't uphold Mr L's complaint. They were satisfied that Creation was within 
its contractual rights to reduce the limit. They weren't sure whether he’d been told about the 
decrease in October 2018. But even if he hadn't been, they didn't think he’d significantly lost 
out – as he would never have been able to make purchases that put him over his £600 credit 
limit in April 2019. 
As Mr L mentioned that he was struggling financially, our investigator signposted him to 
some organisations which may be able to help. They also said he could talk to Creation if he 
needed support. But they didn't think it was fair to instruct Creation to waive or refund any 
payments, as Mr L had told us he’d stopped paying due to his limit being reduced. 
At Mr L's request, his case has been escalated to me for a final decision. He maintains that 
he wasn't told about the change – and has provided further details about his circumstances.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached – and for largely the same reasons.
As a starting point, I’ve checked the terms of this agreement. These say (my emphasis):
"When you enter into this agreement we will tell you what your credit limit is based on 
our assessment of your financial circumstances. We may change your limit from 
time to time depending on our assessment of your account and financial 
circumstances..."
I’m satisfied Creation was within its contractual rights to amend the credit limit as and when it 
did. Ultimately, it has legitimate commercial discretion over how much it's willing to lend over 
a rolling period. So I don't consider it appropriate to interfere with the reduction to Mr L's 
credit limit.
The terms do say that, when Creation amends the limit, it will "write to you and tell you what 
your new limit is". It’s explained that it uses a third party to send out a notification letter within 
48 hours of a limit change. It says it can't provide an original copy of Mr L's letter due to the 
time that's passed. But it's provided a template of this letter; confirmed that it held correct 
contact details for Mr L in October 2018; and checked that there were no known issues with 
these letters at that time. 
The evidence doesn't make it particularly clear whether notification was sent. So I’ve thought 
about what my decision would be if I found Mr L wasn't notified. In that scenario, the aim of 
any award or direction I made would be to put him back in the position he’d be in but for that 
error. He didn't incur any charges (etc.) due to being unaware of the limit. Instead, he reports 
that he was unable to make some purchases. But if Mr L knew about his reduced limit in 
October 2018, he still wouldn't have been able to spend beyond this limit in April 2019. And 
he would have always been required to repay Creation for the credit he used. So I’m not 
persuaded that his position would be materially different but for the potential error.  
I accept that, if Creation didn't notify Mr L in advance, finding out about the limit reduction in 
store would have been embarrassing. But I'm not persuaded that the level of impact he's 
reported warrants compensation. Particularly as I can see that he was still able to use his 
Creation account to buy items in the store that same day.
I'm very sorry to hear about Mr L's current financial situation. However, this complaint is 
about Creation reducing his credit limit. He's told us he stopped making payments because 
he found out about this reduction. But he still owes Creation for the money it’s lent him – 
which he’s benefited from. And I can’t see that he’s engaged with it about his circumstances 
or the state of his account. So I don’t consider directing Creation to waive or refund Mr L’s 
expected contractual payments to be a fair and reasonable remedy to his complaint.
Taking all of this into account, I agree with our investigator that—even if Creation didn't notify 
Mr L about the change to his limit—he hasn't significantly lost out. So whilst I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr L, I’m not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1168376
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) has unfairly applied a 
late payment charge and interest on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr D’s account required a payment to be made by 12 April 2019. He made the payment that 
morning via a faster payment through his online banking and his bank subsequently 
confirmed Creation’s bank received the payment that morning.              
Creation say that the payment was received late, not reaching Mr D’s account until 16 April 
2019. So it applied a late payment charge of £12 and an interest charge on the outstanding 
balance.
Mr D complained to Creation. He said he had made the payment in time and the charge and 
interest should be withdrawn and they should apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
Creation rejected his complaint. It said it didn’t accept faster payments. It said its terms and 
conditions (T&Cs) about payments were clear and that it takes up to five working days for 
payments to reach it. Therefore the charge and interest were correctly applied. 
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it but didn’t uphold Mr 
D’s complaint as he said there was no guarantee that a payment made the same day would 
be received on that day and Creation’s T&Cs did say to allow five working days for payments 
to reach the account.
Mr D disagreed and obtained further confirmation from his bank that his payment had 
reached Creation's bank on the 12 May. Our investigator said this didn’t change his view that 
Creation hadn’t done anything wrong.
As Mr D doesn’t agree it has come to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I won’t be upholding the 
complaint.
I know how strongly Mr D feels about the matter but I don’t think Creation has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in applying these charges. I’ll explain why.
As a business, Creation is entitled to decide on the processes and procedures it puts in 
place and I think it has acted in accordance with them here. The charges themselves are 
clearly set out in the credit card agreement and on the monthly statement. 
The situation here, as with all card providers is that following receipt of funds in it’s own bank 
account it then runs a reconciliation to apply those funds to the card holder’s account with it. 
Funds arriving with the card provider’s bank won’t necessarily be processed that day and 
risk incurring late payment and interest charges. The due date is clearly shown on the 
statement and the suggested five working day timeframe to make a payment allows for this 
process.
I can understand that Mr D is unhappy with Creation not being part of faster payments given 
the increased use of online banking but as Creation’s timeframe to avoid both late payment 
and interest charges is clearly set out, it hasn’t acted unreasonably in applying these 
charges. 
As Creation hasn’t acted unfairly or unreasonably I won’t be asking them to do anything else 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1205978
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (trading as Creation) unfairly 
restricted his credit card. 
What happened
Mr H's Creation credit card was declined when he used it for relatively small amounts at 
certain venues. Creation said it was operating within its risk parameters, and that it hadn't 
done anything wrong. It accepted Mr H may have experienced inconvenience and 
embarrassment when the card was declined, and paid £30 in recognition of this.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She didn't consider 
Creation's assumptions in identifying the risks to Mr H's card were fair or reasonable. 
She said Creation should pay Mr H £200 in addition to what it had already paid.
Creation didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation points out that it is able to restrict credit under the card's terms and conditions. 
Clause 18 of the terms and conditions says:
'...In addition to our other rights under this Agreement...we may at any time treat your right to 
draw down any further credit as restricted or deferred and take such steps as may be 
necessary to make the restriction or deferment effective.'
I also accept that Creation has an obligation to protect its customers and its business from 
the risk of fraud. This means that genuine transactions are sometimes declined.
Creation has explained why Mr H's card was declined on certain occasions. The card was 
declined because Mr H tried to complete several transactions in quick succession at a 
particular type of venue. But it seems it was the nature of the venues he was in that flagged 
the credit spend as risky.
The risk parameters Creation chooses to use are a commercial matter for the business, and 
not something I can interfere with. So I can't ask Creation to change the risk parameters it 
uses. 
In addition, the account's terms and conditions mean I can't ask Creation to lift the 
restrictions on Mr H's card when he uses it at venues identified by the business as risky. I 
understand Creation has explained to Mr H how the card could be used differently in those 
venues to avoid declined transactions.
But I've considered Mr H's overall management of his account, together with Creation's 
reasons for declining certain transactions. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that 
some of the risk assumptions made by Creation in restricting Mr H's card are not fair or 
reasonable. So on this occasion I consider it reasonable for Creation to pay additional 
compensation to Mr H, in recognition of the embarrassment caused when his card was 
declined. 
Putting things right
Creation should pay £200 to Mr H, in addition to the £30 it has already paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (trading 
as Creation) to pay £200 to Mr H in addition to the £30 it has already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1278249
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mrs B complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) reduced the credit limit on her 
account. 
What happened
Mrs B had a credit limit of £4,000 on her Creation account which she opened in 2016. In 
2018, Creation wrote to her to explain it was reducing the limit to £1,350. Mrs B wasn't 
happy with this. She said she had a good credit history and her repayment history to 
Creation was excellent. She complained to Creation asking for the reason behind its 
decision to reduce her credit limit.
Creation explained it was entitled to review and reduce the credit limit at any point, and it 
wasn't required to provide Mrs B with a reason for this. Unhappy with this response, Mrs B 
referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He explained Creation wasn't required to 
provide Mrs B with a reason for the reduction in credit limit and was entitled to do what it 
had. 
Mrs B didn't agree. She said this matter had affected her credit rating and wanted a reason 
for the reduction in her credit limit. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it's been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator, and for the same reasons.
Creation is entitled to periodically review Mrs B's account. And it's terms and conditions 
allow it to reduce the credit limit on her account. Whilst it is frustrating for Mrs B as she 
wanted to use the credit to purchase something, this is still something Creation is allowed to 
do.
I understand why Mrs B will be upset not knowing why her credit limit has reduced. But I'm 
afraid this isn't information Creation is required to provide.
I know Mrs B says this has impacted her credit rating. But she hasn't provided any evidence 
of this. It seems unlikely to me this would impact her credit file. But even if it had, I've 
explained that I don't think Creation has done anything wrong. So I couldn't ask it to make 
any changes.
I recognise Mrs B will remain upset with Creation's decisions and not knowing why it made 
them. But I'm afraid I don't think it's acted incorrectly. So I won't be asking it to take any 
further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1303792
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) cancelled the direct debit 
for her loan repayments, which put her in arrears. This resulted in an adverse credit entry 
which has affected her ability to get a mortgage.  Mrs C also complains that she made an 
arrears payment of £3511.40 which Creation are unable to locate.  
What happened
Mrs C took out a five year loan with Creation for £25000 on 6 March 2018. Her monthly 
repayments were to be paid by direct debit. The account shows that repayments were made 
by direct debit from April 2018 until January 2019. 
 
In January, February and March 2019 the direct debits were returned unpaid to Creation. In 
March 2019 Creation cancelled the direct debit to avoid Mrs C incurring further late payment 
charges. Creation sent arrears letters to Mrs C between 20 January and 4 June 2019, and 
made charges for the failed payments. Mrs C told us they also phoned her at work to discuss 
the arrears but she was unable to speak to them because of laryngitis and so she was 
unable to set up the direct debit again. 
Mrs C contacted Creation on 15 March 2019 by e mail asking for the loan term to be 
extended by three months or for the missed payments to be divided up over the term of the 
loan. Creation responded asking Mrs C to call them to discuss it. Mrs C then asked for a 
settlement figure for the loan which Creation provided on 29 April 2019. Mrs C e mailed 
again asking about spreading the missed payments over the term, to which Creation replied 
on 7 May 2019 that this was not possible but offered her a 12 month payment plan on the 
missed payments. Mrs C then advised that she would clear the loan in full when her house 
was sold.
On 5 June 2019 Mrs C spoke to an agent at Creation about the effect of the arrears on her 
credit status. Mrs C told us that the agent at Creation said that if she made a payment the 
credit file would be corrected. On 10 June 2019 Mrs C spoke with another agent who 
advised that the direct debit failure was Creations’ error as it had not been set up properly in 
January. Mrs C was later told that this advice was wrong, as payments had successfully 
been taken until January 2019.  
On 11 June 2019 Mrs C made an online payment of £3511.40 to Creation using her 
brother’s credit card to clear the arrears. She then asked for the credit file to be corrected 
and the “in arrears” status to be removed. She told Creation that this negative credit marker 
was causing her problems in getting a mortgage and a car loan. 
There was further correspondence with Creation about the removal of the credit marker as 
Mrs C was unhappy that the amendment to her credit file was not immediate and that 
despite clearing arrears, her credit file was still showing the loan as in arrears in late June 
2019. Mrs C says that this caused her to have to obtain an adverse credit mortgage, which 
cost her an extra £1400. 
On 16 July 2019 the £3511.40 which had been paid to Creation from Mrs C’s brother’s credit 
card was charged back to his card.  
Mrs C has provided screenshots of her brother’s online banking app, and also the back page 
of his credit card statement for July 2019, which shows that the £3511.40 was charged back 
on 16 July, but then recharged back to Creation on 23 July. Mrs C has told us that Creation 
are responsible for that recharge and she did not make the payment herself. 
Mrs C told us she telephoned Creation on 3 August 2019 and was told the payment would 
be credited to her account but in a further call on 9 August 2019 she was told that there was 
no trace of the money. 
Mrs C says that Creation have “stolen” this £3511.40 as it has been repaid to them on 23 
July 2019 and they are saying it cannot be found. 
In August 2019, Mrs C’s credit report was still showing an outstanding balance on the loan of 
£9039 with a default balance at £30285 up to June 2019. 
Mrs C cleared her loan on 19 September 2019 in full and the account was closed. 
Mrs C’s original complaint was about Creation’s failure to update her credit file promptly, the 
cancellation of her direct debit, and customer service failings. A final response was sent on 
this issued on 20 June 2019. Creation acknowledged customer service failings in the way 
they had dealt with Mrs C’s complaint, and paid £50 into her account as compensation for 
the upset caused. Mrs C was not happy with this response and referred this complaint to us. 
While we were investigating this issue, Mrs C raised a further complaint with Creation on 19 
August 2019 about the missing payment of £3511.40, and the investigator tried to assist in 
locating the £3511.40, asking for details that would help Creation locate the payment.    
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs C’s complaint and has decided that Creation’s  
offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mrs C disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered the information provided to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Mrs C has raised two main complaints. Firstly, that Creation have cancelled the direct debit 
for her loan repayments and then not acted fairly and reasonably in applying an adverse 
credit marker to her account, and secondly that Creation have not credited her with the 
£3511.40 that she paid using her brother’s credit card.   
I can see from the information supplied by Creation that the reason that Mrs C’s direct debt 
was cancelled was because the direct debit payments in January, February and March 2019 
were returned by her bank as “Refer to Payer”. This is possibly due to there being 
insufficient funds in Mrs C’s account. In order to prevent further charges accruing, Creation 
cancelled the direct debit in March. 
I can also see that Creation made attempts to contact Mrs C by telephone and by letter to 
advise that her direct debit had failed each month. Mrs C herself accepts that she received 
calls from Creation, but that she was unable to speak to them due to laryngitis. 
Mrs C has complained that Creation had breached GDPR by calling her at work and leaving 
messages. I can see that Creation did try to make contact with her at work when her account 
went into arrears because of the failed direct debit. However, the notes do not say what 
information was divulged. If Mrs C believes that there has been a breach of GDPR, this 
would be an issue for the Information Commissioner’s Office to investigate. 
I think that Mrs C was therefore aware that her payments were not being made, and that she 
was getting into arrears. It is Mrs C’s responsibility under the terms of her credit agreement 
to ensure that payments are being made. She did not make these payments, and when 
there was contact between her and Creation in March and April 2019 about the arrears, Mrs 
C asked to extend the loan term or add the arrears to the existing payments rather than 
make the missed payments. This indicates that she was unable to pay the arrears in full 
immediately.  Mrs C also doesn’t seem to have made any attempt to restart the direct debit. 
I can see from the statements provided by Creation that the direct debit payments were 
taken correctly from April 2018 to December 2018. There is therefore no evidence that 
Creation have incorrectly set up the direct debit, and so I am unable to find that the failure of 
the direct debit in January, February and March 2019 was Creation’s fault.   
In view of the above, I am satisfied that Creation have done nothing wrong in cancelling the 
direct debit when it was unpaid in January, February and March 2019, and that they have 
made efforts to contact Mrs C to recommence the payments. I can also see that there were 
several charges for the failed direct debits and I don’t think Creation have done anything 
wrong in applying these charges for the failed payments. Mrs C had an obligation to make 
the payments, her direct debit was returned, and she did not try to remedy this during the 
period that charges were being made.  
It's unfortunate Mrs C was wrongly told in June 2019 that that the direct debit failure was 
Creation’s fault, this does not affect the fact that no payments had been made for six months 
on the loan, and in these circumstances Creation have acted appropriately. 
Mrs C then did make the arrears payment of £3511.40 in full on 11 June 2019, using her 
brother’s credit card. She then complained to Creation on 15 June 2019 that her credit status 
was still showing as in arrears and that she had to obtain an adverse credit mortgage.   Mrs 
C had expected the credit status to immediately update. 
Creation have explained to us that they send the updates to the Credit Reference Agency 
about credit status at the end of each month. It can then take 28 days for the information to 
be processed by the Credit Reference Agency and any amendments to the credit file to be 
made. Creation have acted in accordance with their procedures on reporting. Whilst I 
appreciate that Mrs C would have been frustrated that the impact of making the payment on 
her credit status was not immediate, Creation have not acted unfairly in following their 
normal process.    
The second complaint made by Mrs C relates to the £3511.40 payment which she believes 
has gone missing. When Creation looked into the complaint, they noted that the £3511.40 
which had been paid had been charged back to the card it was paid from on 13 July 2019. 
This would have meant that the arrears were still outstanding. They have no record of it 
being repaid back again.  
Mrs C has provided the back page of a statement from her brother’s credit card which shows 
“Recharge – www.creation” on 23 July 2019 for the amount of £3511.40. This would indicate 
that that the chargeback was repaid to Creation on that date. We have not seen the front 
page of the card statement which would show the account details it was paid from. 
 
We have asked Creation to try and locate this payment using the information provided to us 
by Mrs C. Creation have not been able to locate it. The payment has not been credited to 
Mrs C’s account, and Creation have advised that they have checked their suspense 
accounts to see if a payment for that amount has been received on that date by them and 
held. They have not been able to identify any matching payment. 
We have asked Mrs C for further information to assist us in helping Creation find a payment 
matching the one made. The information requested includes full details for her brother’s 
credit card account and details from the credit card provider as to which account they have 
sent the funds to. We have also asked for an up to date credit report and details of her 
additional losses as a result of what has happened. Mrs C has refused to provide us with this 
information. 
We have also asked Mrs C’s brother directly for the information, including the account 
details, confirmation from the card provider of where they sent the payment, confirmation of 
whether the funds have again been returned to his card since 23 July 2019, further copies of 
statements, and details of why the amount was initially recharged. However, he has not 
responded to our request for information.  
Therefore, I am unable to fairly say that the £3511.40 has been received and retained by 
Creation. Mrs C and her brother have both been asked for and have not provided sufficient 
information for us to identify a payment. 
Mrs C also raised an issue that Creation did not reply to her “notice of correction”. The 
purpose of a notice of correction is for a consumer to make prospective lenders aware of the 
circumstances behind information on the credit file. It is not a dispute process, and so 
Creation were not required to respond to this. 
I note that Creation have paid £50 to Mrs C in respect of the customer service failings from 
her first complaint. I think the payment is fair for the service failings Mrs C experienced, she 
was given wrong information on more than one call. Although rectified and I can that this 
would have caused upset and disappointment. I do not intend to disturb this payment.
My final decision
Creation has already paid £50 into Mrs C’s loan account. 
I will not therefore be asking Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1401352
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr F complains about various issues that arose in connection with his direct debit payments 
to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
 
What happened
 Mr F had a catalogue shopping account with Creation. He made his monthly payments by 
direct debit. He says that in mid-2018 he updated his bank details on Creation's website and 
set up a new direct debit, but Creation only has a record of the old direct debit being 
cancelled, and not of a new one being set up. So no more payments were made, and in 
January 2019 he received arrears letters and was charged £30. He phoned Creation and 
explained, and Creation cancelled the charge and asked him to make a payment.
Creation says that since Mr F was unable to make a payment that day, it was agreed that he 
would make a payment later, and the call handler told him that the next payment after that 
would be due on 1 February, and on then on the first of each month after that. That is in 
dispute, and Mr F says he was told that the next payment was due on 1 February. He also 
says he was wrongly told that the last payment had been due in December, before this was 
corrected to 1 January. He complains about these issues, and he also complains that 
Creation didn't tell him about alternative methods of payment it could accept, or that interest 
is charged on late payments. In a later call, he tried to make a payment but the call handler 
didn't know how to take the payment, and so Mr F had to make the payment three days 
later. Creation accepted that was an error, apologised and paid him £50 compensation. But 
instead of paying that directly to him, it off-set it against his outstanding balance. Mr F 
complains that it should have been paid to him, especially (but not just) because if Creation 
had accepted his earlier proposal to settle and close his account, then there would not have 
been an outstanding balance to off-set.
Mr F also complains that he sent Creation an offer of settlement in which he said that if he 
did not receive a reply within 21 days then he would presume Creation accepted his offer. 
Creation did not reply in time, but did not comply with his instructions, and so he complains 
about that too.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Creation was not bound by an 
offer it had not expressly accepted, notwithstanding Mr F's deadline. She thought £50 was 
fair compensation for the failure to take a payment, since this had only delayed payment by 
three days and that short delay had not prejudiced Mr F's position. She said that Creation's 
terms and conditions made it clear that the compensation could be off-set against any 
outstanding balance, and also that interest would be charged on late payments. She said 
there was no evidence of the new direct debit being set up, so she couldn't be satisfied that 
it was Creation's fault that this had not worked. She didn't agree that Creation had had to tell 
Mr F on the phone that alternatives to direct debit were available since he hadn't asked 
about alternatives. The call handler who told him an incorrect payment date in December 
had immediately corrected this to January, and so Mr F had not been misled. Mr F did not 
accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I accept that Mr F tried to set up a new direct debit, but neither party has any evidence or 
record of this, so it is not possible to tell why it went wrong or whose fault it was -- Mr F's, 
Creation's, or a third party. So I can't say it was because of something Creation did wrong. (It 
does not follow that it must be Mr F's fault; rather, I am specifically not making any finding 
about what happened.)
 As well as being mentioned in the account terms and conditions, the fact that interest is 
charged on late payments was also mentioned on Mr F's monthly statements, and I've seen 
one of them as an example. So I'm satisfied that Creation did enough to tell Mr F that this 
would happen, and that interest was correctly charged. (I think that the real problem here is 
just that Mr F did not expect to be charged any interest because he thought that he was 
making payments by direct debit, but I have already explained why I cannot uphold that part 
of this complaint.)
Although I appreciate that it must be annoying to be given conflicting information by people 
who ought to know the correct facts, I don't think that there were any consequences which 
arose from Creation telling Mr F that a payment had been due in December 2018 when it 
was actually due in January 2019, because it is not in dispute that this error was corrected 
straight away. (In fact, I've listened to the call, and Mr F corrected the call handler and she 
agreed that he was right and apologised. He accepted her apology with good grace at the 
time.) He didn't act on the wrong information to his detriment, and neither did Creation. So 
while that was unfortunate, I don't think it merits compensation.
On the same call, the call handler told Mr F that she would take down his new bank account 
details and set up a new direct debit for him, and that this would collect the payment which 
was due on 1 February, but that he would also have to make a payment manually "on 
Friday" (to cover the arrears). Mr F said he understood. I think that call was clear at the time, 
and so I don't think anyone told him that his next payment was due on 1 February. I note that 
1 February 2019 was also a Friday (in a different week), so it's possible that at some later 
date Mr F forgot what had been agreed and thought that the direct debit was meant to collect 
the late January payment on the earlier Friday. That would not be an unreasonable mistake 
to make (if that's what happened), but I can't say that was Creation's fault.
Creation did pay £50 compensation for another error: for not accepting a payment when Mr 
F wanted to make one, which meant he had to try again three days later (this time 
successfully). I think £50 is fair and is in line with what I would typically award for that kind of 
thing. I think that Creation was entitled to off-set it against the outstanding balance, not just 
because it said so in the terms and conditions but also because that is a general right at 
common law and is standard banking practice. I might have decided that point differently if I 
agreed that the outstanding account balance should already have been zero by the time the 
compensation was paid, but I'm afraid I don't. Creation didn't have to accept Mr F's 
settlement offer, and although it would have been better all round if Creation had specifically 
said it didn't accept that offer within 21 days of receiving it -- which I agree is a reasonable 
timescale -- I won't infer that just by not replying at all, Creation meant to agree to the offer 
and to be bound by it. So the outstanding balance remained at the sum Creation said it was, 
which at the time the compensation was paid was £58.08.
 
My final decision
 My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1464640
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd provided inaccurate information about 
him to credit reference agencies.   
What happened
Mr M had a number of debts with Creation relating to five credit cards and two loans.
He entered into an Individual Voluntary Agreement (IVA) in May 2013. Which meant his 
debts should be recorded as satisfied and the relevant credit reference records removed in 
May 2019, after six years.
He found the credit reference records relating to his debts with Creation were recorded as 
settled in June 2019. This was inaccurate - and would have caused the records to be 
retained for a further six years.
Mr M raised this with Creation. They told him they'd looked into it, decided the records 
should be deleted as Mr M wished, and requested the credit reference agencies (CRAs) do 
that. They said they hadn't known about the IVA until Mr M contacted them.
Mr M later checked his credit reference record and found that one of the CRAs still has a 
record on his credit reference file relating to one of his loans.
Mr M complained to Creation. They said they've done everything they can to request 
deletion of the record. And they no longer hold any information about these debts 
themselves. 
Mr M wasn't happy with this and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it and didn't 
think Creation had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute about the basic facts in this case. Mr M had debts owed to Creation. 
Information about those debts was legitimately on his credit file until 2019. And everyone 
agrees that information should have been deleted in May 2019.
There's also no dispute some of the information is still there on one of the CRAs files. And it 
shouldn't be.
I can understand Mr M's frustration and annoyance about this issue. And, based on the 
information we have at present, I'm in no doubt the matter should be put right and the 
information deleted.
But the question for me in making this decision is whether Creation specifically have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr M. Mr M's complaint is about Creation.
We've got screenshots from Creation which show they did request the deletion of the 
information which is currently still sitting on Mr M's credit file with one of the CRAs. This 
information relates to one of the loans Mr M took out with Creation.
Creation can't explain why the information hasn't disappeared. Neither can I. But I'm 
satisfied Creation have done what they needed to do and requested the information be 
removed.
The CRA in question has guidance on their website for customers who find themselves in 
this kind of position. It says they should raise a dispute with the CRA, who will then try to 
resolve the matter with the business which originally supplied the information.
We've advised Mr M to do this. If the CRA were then clearly told by Creation that the 
information shouldn't be retained - and if Creation were the source of that information for the 
CRA, which there's no reason to doubt at present - then the CRA would presumably delete 
the information from Mr M's credit file.
So, there is a way forward for Mr M to resolve this issue. And I can't conclude at present that 
Creation have done anything wrong. They seem to have done their best to request the 
information be deleted as soon as Mr M made them aware of his 2013 IVA.        
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Mr M's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1545709
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly placed a HPI marker on his 
fixed sum loan agreement and mis-sold the finance agreement to him.
What happened
Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement in June 17 to buy a car. Added to the loan was 
the negative equity owing on Mr B’s previous car. In December 2018 Mr B wanted to part 
exchange his car and was told that there was a HPI marker from Creation on the car which 
would need to be cleared. Mr B complained to Creation that it wasn’t made clear to him that 
his finance agreement had a HP element to it.
Creation rejected Mr B’s complaint and said that although he had a fixed sum agreement it 
had added the HPI marker to make Mr B aware he would still have to pay the finance even if 
he sold the car. It said that the terms of the agreement were clear. It removed the HPI 
marker at Mr B’s request which it said was done promptly.
Mr B wasn’t happy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and thought that Creation hadn’t acted fairly in placing the HPI marker on the car. 
He thought that it wasn’t right for such a marker to be on a car that was the subject of a fixed 
sum loan agreement and as this had caused Mr B considerable delay in being able to sell 
his car, he thought Creation should pay Mr B £150 compensation. He thought that the 
agreement itself hadn’t been mis-sold. 
Mr B agreed with the investigators view. Creation didn’t agree and said that Mr B had never 
raised the issue of the HPI marker in his complaint. In addition, it said that it was justified in 
placing the HPI marker on the car as an internal policy decision and this service couldn’t 
comment on those decisions. In any event the HPI marker was removed within 72 hours of 
the request from Mr B and a confirmation was sent to the dealership to enable him to 
proceed with his part exchange.
Our investigator looked at everything again and thought that it was fair for this service to look 
at the HPI marker aspect of Mr B’s complaint as this was dealt with in Creation’s final 
response letter. He didn’t change his view that Creation was wrong to put the marker on Mr 
B’s car. But he thought that given the evidence that the HPI marker was removed quickly the 
compensation Creation should pay to Mr B should be reduced to £50. 
Creation accepted the investigators second view, but Mr B wasn’t happy with the reduction 
in compensation. He said that the HPI marker took many calls and trips to his dealership to 
get resolved and it wasn’t removed within 72 hours as Creation said. Mr B asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that the type of agreement is now agreed between Mr B and Creation as a fixed 
sum agreement. Mr B agrees that this wasn’t mis-sold to him.
I agree with the investigator that Creation should not have put the HPI marker on Mr B’s car 
without making this clear to him. I don’t agree that this is simply a useful “reminder” for 
people to be prompted to remember to pay their finance if they sell the car. A HPI marker 
has specific consequences for buyers and sellers and I think it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Creation to explain that they were placing a marker against the vehicle and 
what Mr B needed to do about getting it removed.
   
Putting things right
It seems that Mr B was able to proceed with his part exchange and after some calls the 
marker was removed. I haven’t seen any evidence that this caused a delay, but I have no 
doubt it was inconvenient for Mr B. This service doesn’t punish businesses for mistakes and 
the awards we make are modest. In these circumstances I agree with the investigator that 
£50 is fair and reasonable to reflect the level of trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay 
Mr B £50. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1605970
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained about the fact that a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
(Creation) is still showing on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had a loan from Creation which he paid off around March 2018. This loan defaulted 
around May 2012. In September 2019, Mr H contacted a credit reference agency (CRA) to 
complain that some of the information about his loan was wrong on his credit report – he 
said it was showing the wrong settlement date. And he complained to Creation around the 
same time saying that the loan should have been removed from his credit file entirely. The 
CRA wrote to Mr H saying they could only amend information on his credit report with 
Creation’s permission. They said they had contacted Creation and Creation said the loan 
was reporting correctly on the credit file so there was nothing they could do.
Creation didn’t reply within the 8 week time limit so Mr H came to our service. When our 
investigator picked up the case, Creation said they could see the default was placed on the 
account more than 6 years ago and that the account had been settled. Creation’s case 
handler said “I have sent an email off to CRA to have the account deleted as it is now settled 
and default applied more than 6 years ago”. 
Mr H said that he would also like some compensation for the error. He said that it had 
caused him a significant amount of stress. He‘d been trying to arrange finance for his new 
kitchen and had been anxious that the reported information about his Creation loan would 
make it difficult to get finance. On top of this he’d put in a lot of time and effort to try to 
resolve the issue which he also felt he should be compensated for. 
Creation offered Mr H £200 compensation but Mr H wasn’t happy with this. He thought a 
figure of around £500 would be more appropriate, particularly given how long the issue had 
run for. 
Our investigator was satisfied with Creation’s offer and his view was that they didn’t need to 
do anything more. But Mr H wasn’t happy with this outcome. He said he didn’t feel it 
reflected how long he had been affected for. He felt that Creation had deliberately left the 
loan on his credit file. And he was unhappy that the loan was still showing on his credit file 
even after Creation had said they had asked for it to be removed.     
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided to uphold Mr H's complaint - I'll explain why.
Creation haven’t disputed that they made an error in not removing the loan from Mr H’s 
credit file – instead the point in dispute is how much compensation should be paid to Mr H. 
I’ve considered this below.
Putting things right
I asked Mr H to check his credit report again and he sent me a copy of his credit report dated 
9 April 2020. I can see his Creation loan is still showing on this credit report even though 
Creation said they had asked the loan to be deleted in December 2019. I can’t see why this 
hasn’t happened but I do think Creation need to work with the credit reference agencies to 
put it right. I’m directing Creation to ensure the loan is removed from Mr H’s credit file so that 
it no longer appears on his credit report.
I can also see from Mr H’s credit report that the Creation loan stands out as a poorly 
managed account – out of numerous accounts reported there are very few red markers. So I 
can understand why it’s so important to Mr H to have this removed from his credit report. 
And I can understand the stress it’s caused him when applying for new finance. I’m aware 
this has gone on for nearly two years. But Mr H hasn’t lost out as a result of the error on his 
credit file – he has been able to get the finance he needed. So, given all the circumstances, 
I’m satisfied the £200 Creation have offered Mr H is fair and reasonable to compensate him 
for the stress he felt.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
need to pay the £200 they’ve offered to Mr H. And they need to work with all the credit 
reference agencies to ensure the loan is removed from their credit reports.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1625482
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t send him a statement to tell him 
when his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest free period was ending.
What happened
Mr A bought a number of items in 2018 on a BNPL interest free period. Before the end of the 
interest free period Creation wrote to Mr A to remind him when the period was ending, and 
Mr A settled the balance for those items in full before the end of the BNPL period.
In June 2018 Mr A signed up to the electronic portal to manage his account and all future 
statements were sent via email. Mr A says he didn’t get any letters or emails about the end 
of the BNPL period and only noticed when the direct debit increased dramatically. Mr A says 
it isn’t fair that he wasn’t notified about the end of the BNPL and that the full amount of 
interest has been charged even though he paid the balance very quickly after finding out.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and he didn’t think Creation had done anything 
wrong. He thought that the electronic statements made it clear when the payments were due 
and what the interest would be if Mr A didn’t settle in time.
Mr A didn’t agree and replied to say in summary that he never received any emails about the 
end of the period. He thought that the interest charged was excessive even though he had 
paid it off after a short period of time and letters were sent for earlier items which were also 
on the online portal.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand why Mr A is unhappy, especially since he settled his previous finance within 
the BNPL period and wasn’t changed any interest. I can also understand why he was 
expecting a letter in the post as this was his experience for the earlier items.
Creation has provided copies of its records which confirm that an email was sent to Mr A to 
notify him that a statement was available. Mr A says he hasn’t received these emails, but I 
can’t say they weren’t sent. Creation say that Mr A signed up to the portal with an email 
address which is used for logging in. If this email address is incorrect and the emails haven’t 
reached Mr A I can’t say it is Creation’s fault as it was Mr A who would have entered it. 
After Mr A signed up to manage his account online Creation say it sent emails to notify Mr A 
that a new statement was ready in the online portal. It would therefore be Mr A’s 
responsibility to sign in and look at the statements. Those statements set out that the BNPL 
period was ending and the date payment needed to be made to avoid interest.
As I said at the outset, I understand why Mr A was expecting a letter in the post, especially 
since he says he was signed up to the portal when the letters were sent for the previous 
items. But I can’t say Creation has made an error by not sending a letter. The statements 
were notified to Mr A and were accessible to him with all of the information required.
I can understand why Mr A is frustrated that he has missed out on the interest free period as 
I am sure his intention was to pay before the end of the BNPL period. But if the payment is 
made outside that period the statement explains that interest is charged for the whole of the 
period and added to the balance. I can understand why Mr A says it is excessive and unfair 
but according to the terms of the BNPL promotion I can’t say Creation has wrongly charged 
him. Mr A was aware of the rate of interest that would be charged if he didn’t settle the 
balance and so I can’t say it is excessive or wasn’t notified to him.
For these reasons I can’t ask Creation to do anything more in relation to Mr A’s complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
6 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1716489
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) declined a purchase 
he attempted to make through a running account credit facility he had with them.
What happened
Mr T attempted to buy a laptop from an electrical store in August 2019. They would not 
process a credit application at the store, so Mr T did this at home. He was approved for the 
credit, but an initial purchase was rejected by the store. A subsequent purchase attempt was 
rejected by Creation for security reasons and Mr T is upset Creation haven’t provided 
adequate reasons for that.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong. He talked to the business 
and they explained why they had chosen to reject the subsequent purchase to our 
investigator’s satisfaction. He explained that Creation were able to make commercial 
decisions about whether to extend credit and in this case he was satisfied they had not 
made an error. He explained that for commercial reasons he understood Creation would not 
want to disclose the exact information that led them to come to that decision.
Mr T disagreed with the investigator and the complaint was therefore referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T was simply trying to make a purchase and I can understand he would not have wanted 
to be sent away to create a credit agreement or have his initial purchase declined. I’m 
satisfied however, that they were the actions of the merchant and not Creation’s 
responsibility.
I’ve asked some further questions of Creation to establish what happened. Whilst there does 
appear to be an open running credit facility they’ve explained that they may also conduct 
checks on purchases that are made under that facility.
They don’t have to explain exactly why they decline transactions as that would be 
commercially sensitive information that may, in the wrong hands, help customers get around 
the checks they apply for security and for purposes of responsible lending.
In this instance they explained to Mr T that the application (purchase) was reviewed by an 
agent on the Security Team and then declined. I understand that Mr T would think this 
unusual as his previous purchase was approved. But I can understand that circumstances 
may have changed as, for instance, this was a second high value purchase made in a short 
period of time. 
Whilst, I know Mr T would like more information I think Creation have provided enough and I 
don’t therefore think they’ve done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1722759
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that the furniture that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s being helped with 
her complaint by a relative.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

to be able to uphold Mrs C’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the furniture and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to her claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mrs C’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mrs C bought the furniture in June 2017 and paid for it using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance but Mrs C and her relative clearly feel 
that the furniture isn’t of satisfactory quality and that there’s been a breach of the 
guarantee – Mrs C also says that she wasn’t told about the routine care requirements 
for the cushions;

she complained to the supplier about the quality of the furniture and it arranged for it 
to be inspected in June 2018;

the inspection report concludes:
“All internal frame joints and rails secure and correct, all springs and clips 
secure and performing correct, fibre interiors checked, relaxed and settled in 
line with use, demonstrated to customer daily and weekly dressing steps”;

Mrs C complained to Creation Consumer Finance in January 2019 but it rejected her 
complaint because the furniture had been inspected and no defects had been found 
– but it provided her with the names of other inspection companies;

I sympathise with Mrs C for the disappointment that she feels about the quality of the 
furniture, but it was inspected and no faults were found and I’m not persuaded that 
there’s enough evidence to show that the furniture isn’t of satisfactory quality;

Mrs C was provided with information about the guarantee and the care guide for the 
furniture and I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that there’s 
been a breach of contract by the supplier or that she was induced into buying the 
furniture as a result of a misrepresentation by the supplier; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to end the loan agreement, to pay any compensation to Mrs C or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mrs C’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1731434
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t give him a detailed explanation 
for why his loan application was declined.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I’ll only provide a 
brief overview here. In July 2019 Mr C applied for lending with Creation. The loan application 
was later declined. In summary Creation said that Mr C “did not meet their lending criteria”. 
Mr C says he understands no-one has the right to a loan, but he would like to know more 
specifically why his loan was declined. Creation didn’t give a further explanation and the 
matter was referred to our service. One of our investigators didn’t think the complaint should 
be upheld. 
She concluded that Creation had acted fairly by giving the main reason for their decision and 
that they weren’t obliged to be more specific. Mr C points out that he has a good credit 
score, healthy finances and would still like more detail. He’s asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator’s outcome and for very similar reasons. As 
Mr C acknowledges, financial businesses don’t have to agree every application for borrowing 
they receive. They can exercise their commercial judgement to refuse an application, and 
they’re not required to give the unsuccessful applicant a detailed explanation of their 
reasons. 
I’m satisfied that Creation looked at a range of factors and decided, on this occasion, not to 
offer lending to Mr C. I’ve not seen any evidence to support that they acted unfairly or in a 
discriminatory fashion when they exercised their discretion in the way they did. 
I can understand why this is important to Mr C, but in these circumstances, I can’t require 
Creation to give a more detailed explanation. I note Mr C has told us he has more recently 
successfully applied for lending elsewhere which was agreed without issue. I’m glad Mr C 
was able to secure lending, but that doesn’t impact on my thoughts about how Creation have 
handled matters.
Overall, I don’t think Creation have treated Mr C unfairly in all the circumstances and so I’m 
not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1751108
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) wrote to her relative about 
her account, including when a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period would end, rather than her. 
She is also unhappy that she had more than one account with Creation, and with the 
information shown on her credit file.
What happened
Mrs N took out a credit agreement for a Your Plan account in February 2017 to purchase 
some items. In May 2017 Mrs N purchased some more items, and a second credit 
agreement was set up.
When one of the accounts BNPL period was due to end, Creation wrote to Mrs N’s relative. 
Mrs N wasn’t aware of this and the BNPL period ended.
Mrs N contacted Creation when she became aware. Creation discovered two accounts were 
set up but didn’t do anything further at that stage to stop the second account.
Some time later Miss N complained to Creation about the two accounts. They said that two 
accounts were set up in different stores so Mrs N would have been aware of this. But they 
said both shouldn’t be open so when the balance on one was clear, then it would be closed. 
They also confirmed both accounts were in arrears as Mrs N had cancelled her Direct Debit 
instructions with her bank.
Mrs N was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator initially set up this complaint, and included Mrs N’s relative’s concerns, and 
Mrs N’s own concerns within the same complaint. She reached a finding in relation to Mrs 
N’s relative, as well as Mrs N.
In relation to Mrs N’s concerns, our investigator didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in 
writing to Mrs N’s relative, as these were the details she had given when the account was 
set up. She also thought how Creation had recorded information on the credit file was 
correct. But she did think that Creation should have done more when they were aware of the 
two accounts, but didn’t think this impacted Mrs N, as she continued to use and benefit from 
having both available. 
However our investigator recommended £75 compensation be paid to Mrs N for the service 
provided, and because Creation didn’t stop new purchases being added to the second 
account until some time after they were aware Mrs N had two accounts.
Following this, the complaint was correctly separated, and Mrs N’s relative’s concerns were 
looked at separately. 
Creation agreed with the £75 compensation recommended by the investigator for Mrs N. But 
Mrs N didn’t agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I’ll confirm that I’m only looking at Mrs N’s complaint. I’m not considering her 
relative’s concerns here as part of this complaint.
The two accounts
I can see that Mrs N set up her first account on 7 February 2017, and I’ll call this account A.
Mrs N’s second account was set up on 14 May 2017, and I’ll call this account B. I can see 
that slightly different details were given when account B was set up. Namely:

The agreement was in the name of Mrs N rather than Miss N

A middle name wasn’t included

A different email address was provided
 
Creation says that this is why a second account was set up, because different details were 
provided, and the system didn’t recognise that another account was already active. 
Mrs N says that it was likely an error by the salesman in store that the second account was 
set up, as she said that she told him that she already had an account. It’s unlikely the 
salesman would have been able to obtain the details listed above (and others) without them 
being provided, but equally I can never know exactly what was discussed.
But whether it was the salesman’s error, or because slightly different details were given 
which meant the second account was inadvertently opened, I can’t conclude Mrs N has been 
disadvantaged because of this. I say this because Mrs N purchased the items she always 
intended, albeit via two accounts rather than one. But I can’t see that this has caused any 
detriment to Mrs N. I also note, when Mrs N became aware that she had two accounts, she 
also continued to spend on them both.
On both the account applications, the request for correspondence was via email. And a 
different email address had been provided on account B – Mrs N’s relatives.
As this was the email address Creation was given, and email correspondence was 
requested, I can’t conclude that Creation acted unfairly by writing to this email address about 
the account, including balances, BNPL details and any interest being applied. Although 
Mrs N’s relative might not have made her aware of the emails they had received, that’s not 
something I can hold Creation responsible for.
The original agreement taken out outlined when the BNPL was due to end. So whilst email 
correspondence went to Mrs N’s relative about that account – which I don’t think Creation 
acted unreasonably by doing – Mrs N was made aware on the original agreement when it 
was due to end.
So whilst two accounts were opened, I can’t see Mrs N has been disadvantaged as she has 
benefitted from using them both. Creation has said that when the balance has been cleared 
on account B, the agreement will be closed as Mrs N shouldn’t have two agreements in 
place. And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
But it does seem that Creation could have stopped purchases on the second account 
sooner. Having said that, it’s likely that even if Creation had done so, then Mrs N would have 
used account A instead. So, I don’t think it would have changed anything overall or put 
Mrs N into a different position other than the amount owing being on one rather than two 
accounts. But I think the investigator’s recommended compensation of £75 for not closing it 
sooner is fair in the circumstances.
Credit file 
Mrs N has said that her credit file has recorded her having £21,000 of credit from Creation. 
Our investigator asked for evidence of this from Mrs N. But the only evidence Mrs N has 
provided shows her credit report showing £4,000 for one account and £5,000 for the other. 
Which are the correct amounts for each account. So based on the information provided, I’m 
unable to conclude Mrs N’s credit file shows £21,000 of credit with Creation.
Mrs N is also unhappy that Creation has recorded missed payments on her accounts. But 
Mrs N cancelled the direct debits in June 2019. She says she did this out of frustration and 
so Creation would contact her. But this was Mrs N’s choice to cancel them. And the 
balances owing were for items Mrs N had purchased. 
So even though Mrs N was unhappy two accounts were in place, even if she only had one, 
and all purchases were made on that account, she still would always have needed to make 
those payments. So I don’t think Creation would be acting unfairly generally by recording 
missed payments once Mrs N had cancelled her direct debit and stopped making payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Mrs N £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1819990
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty TV.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr W acquired a TV costing £1,039 funded by a deposit of £200 and the 
balance with a fixed sum loan agreement payable over three years. He says it stopped 
working properly in 2015. He contacted the retailer to say the apps no longer worked. He 
says he was referred to the manufacturer which sent him a USB to improve the memory 
capacity. Mr W says this didn’t work and he complained to Creation in 2019. He has 
explained that he hadn’t realised he could complain to the finance company until 2018.
He says that the smart features stopped working intermittently and then permanently. Mr W 
says that the manufacturer has told him the update of one app he uses regularly means the 
TV cannot handle it.
Creation rejected Mr W’s complaint and so he brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didn’t recommend it be upheld. Mr W said the TV 
had been built of cheap components and wasn’t durable.
Our investigator said that apps don’t remain compatible indefinitely and if a third-party app 
provided changes the requirements that cannot be held to be the fault of the manufacturer. 
He said that Mr W took up the matter with Creation after six months had passed and the 
onus was on him to demonstrate the TV wasn’t fit for purpose at the time of sale. 
Mr W didn’t agree and said the manufacturer must have been aware of potential updates 
proposed by the app suppliers and it had failed to build in sufficient capacity to cope. He 
asked that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr W I do not consider that I can uphold his complaint. I 
will explain why.
Consumer law requires goods to be fit for purpose at the point of sale. I have seen nothing to 
suggest that the TV wasn’t fit for purpose when Mr W acquired it in 2014. At the time it was 
sold the TV was capable of supporting the apps and as time passed the third-party app 
providers introduced updates that could eventually exceed the capacity of older TVs.
Such changes can happen quite quickly and manufacturers cannot always anticipate such 
changes or make their product future proof. Mr W has raised the issue of durability and I 
don’t consider that the TV can be said not to have been durable. I gather it still works as a 
TV and in that sense it is durable. I don’t consider its inability to support apps that were 
enhanced at a later date or apps which had yet to be developed is evidence of a lack of 
durability.  
When Mr W bought it in 2014 it worked as he wished and as such it would appear to have 
been made to deal with the smart apps that Mr W used. I can only reiterate that I don’t 
consider the manufacturers can be held responsible for increased demand on memory or 
other capacity required by upgrade apps.
According to Creation the first record the retailer has of Mr W complaining is 2017, but I note 
Mr W says he first encountered problems in 2015. I appreciate that Mr W uses the TV mainly 
for accessing the apps and I have every sympathy with him, but I do not consider I can 
uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1855993
--------------------------

 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd mis-sold him a £20,000 loan without 
checking that he could afford it.
 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr G borrowed £20,000 from Creation. He was to repay £438 a month for 
five years. He made one repayment, and then said he could not afford to keep up the 
repayments. He made token repayments until the debt was sold to a third party. He 
complained that his credit history should have shown Creation that he was already heavily 
indebted, having borrowed £78,000 over nine previous loans with other lenders during the 
previous two years. That figure significantly exceeded his annual income. He also said that 
his outgoings (including loan repayments) had already exceeded his income. He said that 
Creation would have realised this if it had asked for payslips and bank statements, but it 
hadn’t. He also said that Creation would then have realised that he had a serious gambling 
addiction, and that it should never have lent to him. He later said that one of the previous 
lenders had upheld a similar complaint, and had written off the loan and refunded his 
payments.
Creation said that it had checked Mr G’s credit file with one of the credit reference agencies 
(“CRAs”), but many of Mr G’s debts had not been reported there. But he had had no defaults 
or court judgements against him, and had never been in arrears. There had been no 
indication of financial difficulties. Mr G had told Creation that the purpose of the loan was to 
consolidate his debts. Creation had not asked for bank statements or payslips because his 
stated income and outgoings had been plausible, and so it had taken him at his word. It had 
calculated that after making his monthly payments to Creation, Mr G would still be left with a 
disposable income of £415 a month.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that on the information provided to 
Creation at the time, it had been reasonable of Creation not to ask for bank statements, and 
to conclude that Mr G could afford the loan. She agreed that on the information since 
provided to her by Mr G, the loan had not in fact been affordable after all, but she didn’t think 
that Creation could have known that, or that it should have realised he had a gambling 
addiction.
Mr G did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He 
made a lot of detailed submissions in support of his complaint, but in summary he 
maintained that Creation ought to have known that his outgoings were higher than they had 
taken them to be when he applied for the loan.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted that the lender who sold Mr G his last loan before he approached Creation 
agreed with him that it had mis-sold that loan. But it does not necessarily follow that Creation 
must have mis-sold his next loan. The previous lender may have not carried out the same 
checks as Creation, or it might have stricter criteria. So I have confined my attention to what 
Creation knew and what Creation did.
Under rules made by the regulator, a lender has a duty to carry out proportionate and 
reasonable checks to ensure that Mr G could afford to make his loan repayments without 
undue difficulty. Provided it does that, each lender may decide for itself what checks to carry 
out, although they will usually consider information provided by a CRA. But a lender is also 
entitled to take into account what its customer tells it about his finances. It doesn’t have to 
doubt everything he says, and ask for supporting evidence, if what he tells it seems plausible 
on its face. The customer has a duty to provide accurate, complete and truthful information, 
and the lender is entitled to believe him. So my starting point is that Creation was entitled to 
rely on what Mr G told it. Just because that information later turns out to be wrong or 
incomplete doesn’t automatically mean the loan was mis-sold. I would only uphold a 
complaint in such circumstances if I thought that the information provided was so clearly 
implausible or contradictory that Creation ought to have investigated it further.
Mr G declared a monthly income of £2,830. That figure fell within Creation’s parameters for 
accepting it at face value, so it didn’t ask for proof. I think that was a reasonable approach, 
but I am strongly reinforced in that view by the fact that Mr G stands by that figure even now. 
If it was the right figure all along, then it wouldn’t matter that Creation didn’t ask to see 
evidence of it, even if I thought it was supposed to.
According to Creation’s contact notes, Mr G told Creation that he paid £275 a month towards 
his mortgage. (I have noted that this was missed by the credit broker, but it appears that 
Creation asked its own questions.) Creation also took into account six unsecured loans, 
which it saw on his credit file. The total repayments on those loans added up to £1,702 a 
month. Mr G has provided our Service with another copy of his credit file which he obtained 
from a different CRA: that shows £1,810 of monthly repayments before he took the loan with 
Creation (including mortgage payments of £602 a month). There are three CRAs in the 
United Kingdom, and they each receive different information from different lenders (because 
lenders don’t all have to report their data to all three CRAs). So different information will 
show depending on which CRA is used, but in this instance I don’t think that the difference of 
£108 is significant, because it is still smaller than the disposable income figure calculated by 
Creation. (That was £2,830 – £1,702 – £275 – £438 = £415.)
I accept that the figures Mr G provided to our investigator show that he couldn’t afford the 
loan, and that he had no disposable income. But Creation didn’t know that then, although Mr 
G must have. Mr G argues that Creation should have known, because it should have 
checked other sources, like the monthly turnover on his current account, for example (which 
was available through the CRA Mr G used).
But balanced against that are the following facts which Creation did know. Mr G had not 
been in arrears, nor had a default. He had been managing his existing loans well. He said he 
was taking out the Creation loan in order to consolidate his existing payments (and I note 
from the credit file that Mr G provided to us that two of his prior loans were settled in 
December 2018, the same month in which he applied for the Creation loan). I think Creation 
was entitled to believe him, and not to ask him for proof of what he was going to do with it. 
So for the above reasons, I do not agree that this loan was mis-sold.
 
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-1954161
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss C complains that a TV she obtained with credit provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (“Creation”) wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She wants to return the TV and she 
wants Creation to refund what she’s paid.
What happened
Miss C obtained a TV using finance provided by Creation in February 2019. She said that 
just over a month later it developed a fault – an intermittent white line across the screen - 
and she tried to return the TV to the retailer. But the retailer referred her to the manufacturer. 
The manufacturer attempted to fix the fault on four occasions – it replaced cables, the TV 
box, the circuit board, and the screen. But Miss C says the fault remains. The manufacturer 
told Miss C to return the TV to the retailer for a refund, but the retailer wouldn’t give her her 
money back without a repair code from the manufacturer, which it seems the manufacturer 
was unable to supply.
Miss C complained to Creation. It didn’t agree to refund Miss C. It said she should obtain the 
fault code from the manufacturer which should allow the retailer to provide her with a refund.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Miss C had provided enough evidence to show she’d been provided with a TV that was 
inherently faulty. He recommended Creation should refund all payments made by Miss C, 
plus interest, and pay her £100 for the trouble and upset she’d been caused.
Creation didn’t agree. It said, in summary, that:

It hadn’t seen anything from the manufacturer to say the reason for the fault.

The retailer should be given the opportunity to review the repairs or to replace the TV.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what’s fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Miss C brings her complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Miss C 
has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also 
bring that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint 
I must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that 
“the quality of goods is satisfactory”. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the TV wasn’t of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
I don’t find that the TV was of satisfactory quality. It developed a fault around a month after it 
had been supplied. Miss C has provided evidence to show that the manufacturer attempted 
repairs on four separate occasions and that these repairs were unsuccessful. 
Understandably, Miss C has lost faith in the manufacturer so does not want a replacement 
TV, even if this was to be offered by the retailer as Creation have suggested.
Miss C has done everything the retailer and the manufacturer have recommended. I think it 
would have been reasonable to give them one opportunity to carry out a repair before asking 
for a refund. Miss C gave them four opportunities and each time the repair failed. In the 
circumstances, I find it’s fair and reasonable that Creation should provide a refund. And that 
it should compensate her for the trouble and upset she’s been caused.
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance should:
1.
Cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Miss C.
2.
Remove the finance agreement from Miss C’s credit file.
3.
Arrange the collection of the TV at no cost to Miss C.
4.
Refund Miss C’s deposit in full; adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
the payment to the date of settlement. *
5.
Refund all payments made by Miss C, adding 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement. *
6.
Pay Miss C £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation Consumer Finance must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax 
it’s taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2039012
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr J complains that a laptop he obtained with credit provided by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. He wants to return the laptop and he wants 
Creation Consumer Finance to refund what he’s paid.
What happened
Mr J obtained a laptop using finance provided by Creation Consumer Finance in February 
2018. He complained to Creation Consumer Finance in June 2019. He said the laptop 
wasn’t working and that, when he returned it to the retailer, it said the laptop needed a new 
battery. But this didn’t resolve the problem. Mr J took the laptop to a local independent repair 
business. It identified that the motherboard had failed and couldn’t be repaired.
Creation Consumer Finance didn’t agree to refund Mr J. It said the laptop’s warranty had 
expired and that Mr J hadn’t provided evidence to show that the fault was a manufacturing 
issue, rather than wear and tear.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded there 
was enough evidence to show the laptop wasn’t sufficiently durable, so wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. He thought Creation Consumer Finance should refund all 
payments made by Mr J and reimburse him for the cost of the report he’d obtained.
Creation Consumer Finance didn’t agree. It said, in summary, that:

Mr J had provided a “quote” rather than a report and that this didn’t show what the 
problem was or whether there was a fault when the laptop was supplied. 

If there was a fault, it was likely to have caused a problem sooner than it did.

It’s possible the laptop has been left on for long periods and over-heated and, bearing in 
mind this was not a top of the range laptop, this may have affected its durability.
Mr J told us about his recent personal circumstances and explained that the failure of 
Creation Consumer Finance to accept the investigator’s recommendation was adding to his 
distress. He asked whether we would consider awarding compensation for the distress this 
matter has caused.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what’s fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Mr J brings his complaint under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Mr J has 
a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier, they can also bring 
that claim against the lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint I 
must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
The relevant law says that, under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that 
“the quality of goods is satisfactory”. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have 
to be persuaded that the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether the laptop was of satisfactory quality, I’ve considered its cost, how long 
after supply the fault occurred, and the nature of the fault.
The laptop stopped working more than a year after it had been supplied. Mr J returned it to 
the retailer who suggested a new battery was required, but this didn’t fix the fault. Mr J took 
the laptop to an independent repairer. It has provided its conclusions. What it’s said is very 
brief and is on a piece of paper headed “quote”. Whilst I agree with Creation Consumer 
Finance that it would be nice to have a comprehensive report which tells us the exact cause 
of the fault, I don’t find there’s any reason for me not to place reliance on the short 
conclusion that we do have. The independent expert said they couldn’t identify any problem 
with the screen or the battery and concluded that:
“Motherboard is faulty, the device will not turn on.
No power getting to mother boards.”
The independent expert also checked for physical or liquid damage, but could not find any. 
This suggests that the laptop hasn’t been mis-used or damaged – either accidently or 
wilfully.
The laptop is probably best described as an ‘entry level’ model; it was not expensive. But I 
think a reasonable person would expect a brand-new laptop – even at the cheaper end of 
the market – to last considerably longer than this one has. I’m not persuaded that it’s been 
mis-used or damaged, so I think it’s more likely than not that it wasn’t of suitable quality 
when it was supplied.
Putting things right
As the laptop can’t be repaired, I conclude that its fair and reasonable that Mr J should be 
refunded. Creation Consumer Finance should:
1.
Cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr J.
2.
Arrange the collection of the laptop at no cost to Mr J.
3.
Refund Mr J’s deposit in full; adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date of the 
payment to the date of settlement. *
4.
Refund all payments made by Mr J, adding 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement. *
5.
On receipt of evidence from Mr J, reimburse him for the cost of the independent report.
*  HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to take off tax from this 
interest. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax it’s 
taken off if he asks for one.
Mr J has explained how the failure of Creation Consumer Finance to refund him at an earlier 
stage, particularly in response to our investigator’s conclusions, has added to his distress. 
But our process allows for either party to ask for an ombudsman’s decision and I won’t be 
penalising the business for requesting this. Whilst an award for the trouble and upset being 
supplied with a faulty laptop has caused would not be unreasonable, I have taken into 
account that Mr J did have trouble free use of the laptop for several months. As I have not 
decided Creation Consumer Finance should keep any of the payments Mr J has made, 
I think this adequately compensates him overall for the distress he’s been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited should 
pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2045635
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms T’s complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) has 
handled direct debit arrangements on her account – which left her owing more than she 
thought she did. 
What happened
In 2018, Ms T bought electrical goods on a “buy now, pay later” plan.  Credit for the plan was 
provided by Creation.  
Under the plan, no interest was payable if full payment was made within six months. 
Otherwise, interest would be charged, and payments could be made on a monthly basis.  
A direct debit mandate, which would allow Creation to take payments from Ms T’s bank 
account, was attached to the credit agreement.
Ms T didn’t make any payments within the first six months.  So Creation began to charge 
interest on what she owed, and to collect payments from the account detailed in the direct 
debit mandate.  In addition, Ms T made extra payments using her debit card.
In August 2019, Creation was contacted by a third party.  The third party said that payments 
were being taken from their account without their authority.  These payments had been 
credited to Ms T’s account.  Because they were disputed, the payments were reversed, and 
the direct debit cancelled.
In September 2019, Ms T noticed the balance on her account had gone up, rather than 
down.  So she called Creation to find out why.  Creation told her this was because the 
interest free period had ended, so interest had been added to the amount she owed.  They 
didn’t tell Ms T that the direct debits which had been credited to her account had been 
reversed.
During the call, Creation asked Ms T if they could reinstate the direct debits.  She agreed 
they could.  Creation didn’t check the details with Ms T.  So they reactivated the third party’s 
details.  
As a result, further payments were taken from the third party’s account.  These were again 
disputed – and the payments were reversed.
Ms T complained to Creation.  She said that the direct debit had been set up without her 
permission. And that interest had been added to the account when she’d been told that 
wouldn’t happen.  Creation investigated and wrote to Ms T with their findings.  They said 
they’d not found any evidence that Ms T had been told no interest would be payable – so, as 
per the terms and conditions, interest had been charged once the interest free period had 
ended.  And they said that the direct debit had been reinstated during her call of September 
2019.  So they didn’t uphold her complaint.
Ms T wasn’t satisfied, so she brought her complaint to us.  She said she’d been told the 
direct debits had been reversed because an indemnity had been requested.   But she’d 
never made that request – and her bank had no record of this.  And no payments had gone 
back to her account.  She said she’d tried to sort this out with Creation but hadn’t been able 
to.
Our investigator looked at the complaint.  He found that the details on Ms T’s direct debit 
mandate weren’t right – they gave the sort code for one of her accounts, but the account 
number for another. So the payments which had been reversed had actually come from 
someone else’s account – which is why they hadn’t been returned to Ms T.  
He didn’t think Creation had done anything wrong by using the account details given on the 
direct debit mandate.  But he did think that, when Ms T had spoken to Creation in September 
2019 about reinstating the direct debit, they should’ve checked the details they had with her. 
Instead, they just re-activated the details they had – which were wrong.  Our investigator 
thought Creation should pay Ms T £75 compensation for this.
Ms T asked that an ombudsman make a final decision on her complaint.  So I’ve been asked 
to do that.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I’m upholding Ms T’s complaint.  I’ll explain why.
Ms T’s clearly been confused by Creation’s handling of her account. I can understand why – 
both our investigator and I have had to look very carefully at the evidence to see what’s 
happened.  
Having done that, I’ve seen that the account details on the direct debit mandate attached to 
Ms T’s credit agreement are different from the details she gave our investigator – the 
account number’s the same, but the sort code is different.  Ms T gave our investigator the 
details in circumstances where she knew they’d be used to check what had happened. So I 
think she’d have taken particular care to make sure they were right.  I’m persuaded by this 
that the details on the direct debit mandate are wrong.
And it’s clear from the indemnity request received from the third party that those details in 
fact belonged to someone else.  When they were told this, Creation reversed the payments 
and adjusted the balance on the account they’d been credited to – which was Ms T’s 
account. That was why her balance went up.  
Creation’s records show that they wrote to Ms T telling her about the indemnity requests.  
Ms T says she didn’t receive those letters.
I agree with our investigator that Creation didn’t do anything wrong in reversing the 
payments that had been made to Ms T’s account. And I’m satisfied they took steps to advise 
Ms T what they’d done.  It’s unfortunate that Ms T didn’t get those letters – but I can’t hold 
Creation responsible for that. 
But I don’t think they should’ve simply reinstated the direct debit without checking the 
payment details with Ms T.  It’s clear they knew there’d been a problem with the direct debit 
payments.  And the direct debit was reinstated during a phone call. So it would’ve been 
reasonable for Creation to check the details with Ms T when they were speaking to her about 
it.  It was an opportunity to stop the same thing happening again – which Creation missed.
Putting things right
I’ve thought carefully about what should happen in this case to put things right.  Ms T 
believes she’s not been given credit for all the payments she’s made.  So she thinks she’s 
due some repayment.
Our investigator asked Ms T for copies of her bank statements so I could see if any direct 
debits had been paid out of her bank account.  But Ms T hasn’t provided any.  So I’ve had to 
rely on the information from Creation to make my decision.  That showed me that the 
indemnity request came from a third party – not Ms T.  So the payments received would’ve 
been returned to that account.  Without any evidence to show me anything different, I can 
only conclude that Ms T didn’t make any direct debit payments - whatever her intention.  So 
I’m not satisfied she paid any more than she owed to Creation.  And for that reason, I’m not 
deciding that Creation should make any refund to her.
But I do agree with our investigator that Creation caused Ms T confusion by not checking the 
account details they had for her when she called them in September 2019.  Had they done 
so, it would have given Ms T the opportunity to give the correct details, and avoid the second 
indemnity request being made.  I think Creation should compensate Ms T for causing that 
confusion.  And I agree with our investigator that £75 is the right amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms T’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and directing them to pay Ms T £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2105591
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd refused his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty bed.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr M ordered a new mattress, from a company I will call D, at a cost of £679 
funded by a conditional sale agreement. Mr M says he had bought a similar mattress in 
December 2016 which was extremely comfortable. The new mattress was used in his spare 
bedroom and he didn’t sleep on it until the spring of 2019. He says he then discovered it was 
softer and it dipped making it uncomfortable and causing back pain.
He complained to D and it sent an independent inspector. His report states: “I have carried 
out a lay test and pressure test and in my opinion the mattress is offering a good level of 
support consistent with a firm mattress the settlement is approximately 10 mm. this is within 
manufacturers tolerance. The slats are 8cm apart. In my opinion there is no manufacturing 
faults with this mattress however there is a noticeable difference between the 2 in the home. 
The double does feel softer then the king-size. The customer is unhappy with this and would 
like this investigated with the manufacturer's. Regarding my findings of the mattress there is 
no manufacturing faults and the mattress is offering a good support.”
Mr M says the inspector told him the mattress wasn’t as thick as the other and that this could 
be due to the supplier’s mistake. He allegedly said that Mr M would be entitled to a 
replacement or a 50% refund. Mr M also said the inspector made a couple of factual 
mistakes.
In October 2019 Mr M complained to Creation. It arranged a second inspection which was 
carried out by a different inspector from the same company. His conclusion was: “Liability 
explanation: No manufacturing faults found, normal settlement. Action taken: Upon 
inspection I found the mattress is set upon a twin slatted bed. When customer was 
questioned, it’s been established the customer hasn’t been rotating the mattress head to toe 
he states its occasional use, so that’s why he hasn’t been rotating it. I have done a string line 
check and recorded 0 0 cm of settlement as the interior fillings are returning 100%. A hand 
compression and lay check was carried out however no support issues were found. A check 
of the customer own bedstead also found no faults as its correctly supporting the base of the 
mattress. In my opinion the mattress is displaying normal natural settlement.”
After considering both independent reports Creation rejected Mr M’s claim and so he brought 
the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who didn’t 
recommend it be upheld. She said that it was up to Mr M to demonstrate that the mattress 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She noted that both the independent reports concluded the 
mattress was of satisfactory quality and was within the manufacturer’s tolerances. 
She acknowledged that Mr M considered the performance of the two mattresses to be 
different, but that didn’t mean the second one was of unsatisfactory quality. She also noted 
that D thought it unlikely that an inspector would have suggested the mattress could be 
replaced or a 50% refund offered. It wasn’t in his remit to make such offers.
Mr M didn’t agree and submitted photographs and a video. He said the difference in depth of 
the two mattresses showed that the second one had reduced tensile strength. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is a clear debtor-creditor-supplier link and so I have to consider if there 
was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation. On the later issue Mr M has indicated 
he chose the mattress based on his experience with the one he bought in 2016. He has not 
suggested that he was misled by the seller as to the qualities of the mattress. I have seen 
nothing from the seller to say it told Mr M the two mattresses would be identical. 
Although the new one wasn’t identical to the other it seems he presumed the qualities would 
be identical or close to identical. The two mattresses were made by the same manufacturer, 
but were of a different size and it would appear they were different models. Mr M hasn’t said 
whether he inspected the second mattress before buying, but it is implicit that he did not.
When considering this complaint I have to consider if the mattress wasn’t fit for purpose, not 
whether it was similar to the first one. This is the approach Mr M has taken and has said that 
because the second one is softer than the first the second must be faulty. 
We have two reports by independent inspectors both of whom conclude that the mattress is 
not faulty. I cannot see how I can go against their conclusions. They are experts and have 
inspected the mattress. I have noted Mr M’s evidence and photos plus the video and I regret 
I don’t consider those are such that I can reach a different conclusion to that of our 
investigator. Nor do I consider the claimed comments of one inspector to have any 
meaningful influence on my decision. 
In summary I cannot safely conclude that the has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2111460
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold a buy now pay later (BNPL) credit agreement by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In November 2019 Mrs G bought an item from a store I will call C. It cost £985 and she paid 
a deposit of £200. She says she was offered a credit agreement whereby it would be interest 
free if she paid off the debt within six months. She wanted to set up a direct debit to pay it off 
over the six month period, but was told that wasn’t possible. However, it was open to her to 
make manual payments. 
She checked her online account and saw that it was set up for her to pay £49 a month. She 
was concerned that she may have to pay interest and so she paid in full a few days later and 
withdrew from the agreement. She also says she was offered a 5% off voucher which was 
never given to her. She added that when she had paid off the debt, she asked that her 
information be removed from Creation’s systems, but it told her that such data was retained 
for six years.
Creation rejected her complaint and said that she had been given the correct information. 
Mrs G brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didn’t recommend it be upheld. Mrs G asked that she be refunded the 
interest she had paid.
Our investigator concluded that there had been a misunderstanding. He noted the 
agreement allowed for payments to be made before 26 May 2020 but only manual 
payments. The direct debit which had been set up for £49 would only begin after the six-
month period had elapsed. He said Mrs G wasn't required to make payments before this 
date, but she could if she so wished.
He explained that any payments to the BNPL agreement before six months were to be made 
manually and it was open to Mrs G to pay the loan off at any time in that six-month period to 
avoid interest.
He referred to Creation’s contact notes and said this seemed to have been explained to her 
when she called. Ultimately it was her decision to pay early. He added that the issue of the 
5% voucher was one for the store and not Creation. He also said that the records kept by 
Creation was not within our remit and if Mrs G had any issue, she would have to address 
those to the Information Commissioners Office.
Mrs G didn’t agree and suggested the investigator listen to the call she made to Creation. It 
was unable to send it to this service, but sent us a summary. Our investigator was satisfied 
that Mrs G had not been misled.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mrs G may have concluded that she might end up paying interest, but I don’t 
think Creation misled her in that regard. She took out a BNPL agreement and as is normal a 
direct debit was set up so that if the balance wasn’t paid in full within the six-month period 
Creation had the means to obtain payment from Mrs G.
It didn’t mean that the monthly payments of £49 would start immediately, but I can 
appreciate why Mrs G thought they might do. I have read the details of the conversation she 
had with Creation which I am satisfied was fair summary. Although a minor error with the 
settlement date was made this has no bearing on the substance of the complaint and would 
not have caused Mrs G any difficulty. I am satisfied the BNPL credit agreement was 
explained correctly to Mrs G, but she remained concerned that she may have to pay interest. 
In the end she paid the loan off within the six-month period and no interest was paid.
I appreciate Mrs G wanted to pay by direct debit, but Creation wasn’t obliged to accept this 
form of payment and it was open to her to make manual payments throughout the six-month 
period so that she avoided interest. It may be that she thought that the refusal to accept 
direct debits was also a refusal to accept all payments, but nothing I have seen suggest that 
was ever said he her.
In short, I believe there was misunderstanding and apart from paying the amount due earlier 
than anticipated I don’t consider Mrs G had suffered any loss. Finally, I agree that the 
matters of the voucher and the information retention are not issues for this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2171207
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to him the money that 
he paid, using a fixed sum loan agreement, for a laptop computer.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr L and to Creation Consumer Finance 
on 11 February 2021. In my provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
“Mr L entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in 
August 2014 to pay for a laptop consumer. He complained to the manufacturer about 
an issue with the laptop in November 2014 but the actions that it recommended didn’t 
solve the issue and he reported it again in May 2015, July 2016 and February 2017. 
He complained to the retailer in February 2020 and paid £60 for its diagnostic report. 
A fault with the logic board was diagnosed and the retailer offered to pay Mr L 
£291.18 for the laptop if he returned it. That wasn’t acceptable to Mr L so he 
complained to Creation Consumer Finance and asked it to replace the laptop or to 
refund the money that he’d paid for it.
It said that Mr L had had use of the laptop for more than five years so it would be 
unreasonable to expect the retailer to provide a replacement or a full refund. It said 
that the laptop had been deemed beyond economical repair so the retailer had 
offered £291.18 as a partial refund – which it believed to be fair. Mr L wasn’t satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator was satisfied that the laptop had a defect that was present at the 
point of sale so was of unsatisfactory quality. She said that Mr L had been able to 
continue to use the laptop but there had been some impact on his use. She 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should refund 25% of the price of the 
laptop (which she said was £499.75) to Mr L and for him to hand the laptop back – 
and that it should reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
Both Mr L and Creation Consumer Finance have asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Mr L says that he should receive a full refund but 
would accept about a 75% refund and he says that he shouldn’t have to return the 
laptop as he still uses it. Creation Consumer Finance says there’s nothing in the 
manufacturer’s reports that indicates why the issue has occurred or that it was 
present at the point of sale and it considers that the retailer’s offer is fair”.
And I set out my findings as follows:
“In certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. To be able to uphold Mr L’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I 
must be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
retailer and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to his claim under section 
75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr L’s claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that.
The retailer has accepted that there was a fault with the laptop and as Mr L 
complained to the manufacturer about the fault less than three months after he 
bought it, I consider it to be more likely than not that the fault was present when the 
laptop was supplied to him – and that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality at that time 
because of that fault.
But Mr L was able to use the laptop from August 2014 (when he bought it) until 
February 2020 (when it was returned to the retailer) – which is about five and a half 
years – and he’s continued to use it since he collected it back from the retailer. He’s 
described how his use of the laptop has been impacted by the fault but I’m not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to provide him with a replacement laptop or to refund him the money that he 
paid for his laptop.
The retailer offered to pay him £291.18 in March 2020 – but said that he would have 
to return the laptop – and our investigator recommended that Creation Consumer 
Finance should refund £499.75 to him and reimburse him for the cost of the 
diagnostic report but that he should return the laptop. Creation Consumer Finance 
and the retailer both say that the laptop is beyond economic repair so I’m not 
persuaded that it’s fair or reasonable for Mr L to be required to return the laptop to 
receive the compensation that’s been offered.
I consider that the compensation that was offered by the retailer was fair and 
reasonable given the time that Mr L has had the laptop and the use that he’s had 
from it. It’s for him to then decide whether to use the refund towards the cost of a new 
laptop, a repair of his laptop or for another purpose. I’m not persuaded that there’s 
enough evidence to show that a higher award of compensation would be justified in 
these circumstances.
Mr L paid £60 for the diagnostic report by the retailer and it was on the basis of that 
report that it offered the compensation to him – so I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to reimburse him for the cost of that 
report, with interest. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
£291.18 to Mr L and to pay him £60 to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic 
report, with interest, But I don’t consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to take any other action in response to Mr L’s complaint”.
So, subject to any further comments or evidence from Mr L or Creation Consumer Finance, 
my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. Creation 
Consumer Finance has accepted my provisional decision but Mr L says that it should pay for 
the laptop to be repaired. 
He has responded to my provisional decision in detail and clearly has strong feelings about 
the way that he’s been treated. He says, in summary and amongst other things, that:

the laptop doesn’t work and he hasn’t been able to use it since before he returned it 
to the retailer;

it hasn’t worked properly since he bought it and he only had limited use from it until it 
stopped working and he complained to the retailer;

the retailer refused to return the laptop to him;

the laptop is now with a repairer who has quoted about £1,000 to repair it;

he hasn’t been treated fairly by the manufacturer or the retailer both of which 
accepted that the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality;

he expects the laptop to last eight to ten years and the price of similar laptops of this 
age is much higher than the compensation that he was offered by the retailer;

the manufacturer, retailer and Creation Consumer Finance all have “deep pockets” 
but he’s the one who’s lost out and this is purely an “economic issue” for him; and

as a minimum he should receive the compensation that was recommended by our 
investigator and be able to keep his laptop.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’m not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. I’ve 
carefully considered what Mr L has said in response to it and I sympathise with him for the 
issues that he’s had with the laptop and for the upset that he clearly feels.
Although there were issues with the laptop soon after it was supplied to Mr L, he didn’t 
complain to the retailer about those issues until about five and a half years after he’d bought 
it. He says that those issues prevented him from using the laptop as he’d intended – but he 
did have some use of laptop until it stopped working. 
Mr L has described the difficulties that he experienced with the retailer but his complaint is 
made against Creation Consumer Finance under section 75. It’s only liable to him under 
section 75 for a breach of contract by the retailer (or a misrepresentation by the retailer 
which induced him into buying the laptop) – it’s not liable under section 75 for any issues 
with the customer service that he received from the retailer.
When Mr L complained to the retailer he paid £60 for a diagnostic report and it said that the 
laptop had been deemed beyond economical repair so it offered him £291.18 as a partial 
refund. That was based on the age of the laptop and the retailer believed that to be fair – but 
it said that it would keep the laptop. 
Mr L clearly feels that the laptop is worth considerably more than £291.18 (though it will cost 
about £1,000 to repair) – but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that 
the retailer’s offer to pay him £291.18 was unfair or unreasonable. I do consider that it was 
unfair and unreasonable for the retailer to say that it would keep the laptop if Mr L was to 
receive the compensation that he’d been offered.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mr L 
the £291.18 that he’s been offered by the retailer. I also find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it pay him £60 to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report, with 
interest. But I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay 
him a higher amount of compensation than the retailer offered him – or to pay for the laptop 
to be repaired.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to take the actions described above and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr L’s complaint in part and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Pay to Mr L the £291.18 that he was offered by the retailer.
2.
Pay £60 to Mr L to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
3.
Pay interest on the amount at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr L a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2181247
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him interest on his payment 
plan but didn’t send him a reminder to settle his account before the expiry date of the ‘Buy 
now, pay later’ promotion. 
What happened
In February and March 2019, Mr A bought items using payment plans provided by Creation 
Consumer Finance. The plans had a six-month interest-free period, which ended in August 
and September 2019. Mr A has had a number of similar plans before and received an email 
reminder that interest-free period was coming to an end about four weeks before. He then 
paid off the balance of the plan to avoid paying the interest.
 
However, he didn’t receive email reminders for either of these plans, and so didn’t make the 
payments towards them before the expiry date of the interest-free period. This meant that 
Creation began collecting the monthly payment for each of them by direct debit from Mr A’s 
bank account, and he was charged interest on them. Mr A complained.
 
Creation said that with any financial account there is a degree of self-responsibility as a 
customer needs to make sure they make payments to avoid interest charges. It said that 
Mr A had agreements that expired in August and September 2019 and it had issued monthly 
statement email remainders to him in July and August 2019. As it didn’t receive the 
payments required to settle the agreements, the monthly direct debits for them were started 
and interest was incurred. It said that, regardless of whether a customer receives a reminder 
or not, it is still their responsibility to make sure payments are made. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didn’t think it should be upheld. She 
said Creation had collected the direct debit payments for the items Mr A had bought in line 
with the terms and conditions of the agreement. She said Creation had provided evidence to 
show that automated email reminders had been sent to Mr A in July and August 2019. But 
she said that even though Mr A hadn’t received these, the terms and conditions said: “You 
remain liable to pay all sums due under the agreement, whether or not you receive a 
statement.” The investigator was satisfied that Creation had correctly applied interest once 
the interest-free period expired and that it had sent the email reminders to Mr A. 
Mr A didn’t accept the investigator’s findings. He said he didn’t receive the email reminders 
which showed that Creation’s systems had broken down. He has always been told that he 
would receive a reminder that the interest-free period was coming to an end, and incurring 
interest defeats the purpose of buying this way. Mr A said Creation should treat him fairly as 
a loyal customer who had used this plan several times before with a record of settling on 
time. He said Creation should refund the interest he was charged. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate Mr A’s strength of feeling about this matter, particularly as he’d used this type 
of payment plan previously and had always settled the balance when the interest-free period 
was about to end to avoid being charged the interest. I can see that he has relied upon 
receiving the email reminders about this, which were sent to him around four weeks before 
the expiry.
However, in the circumstances here, I don’t think that Creation has acted wrongly or unfairly 
in beginning to collect the monthly direct debit payments for the items Mr A had bought when 
the balance wasn’t settled before the end of the interest-free period.
I can see from Creation’s records that a statement is emailed to Mr A each month and it has 
told us that this contains a link to log into his online account. And these records show that 
they were sent to Mr A in July and August 2019 and gave the details of the two items he 
bought in February and March 2019. In the section “Important information”, the online 
statements also set out when the interest-free period for each item would end and when 
settlement needs to be made before interest is charged.
 
Mr A has told us that he has purchased a number of items using the ‘Buy now, pay later’ 
plan, and has settled these at the end of the interest-free period so hasn’t been charged 
interest. So I think it’s reasonable to say that he would’ve been aware that there was a need 
to settle the balance at the end of the six months if he wanted to avoid paying interest. 
 
So although Mr A didn’t receive the email reminders that were sent to him, I don’t think this 
means that Creation applied interest to his account balance unfairly when this was done in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement as they weren’t settled until after 
the end of the expiry of the interest-free period. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2216399
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2018 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had 
covered mileage of 17,579. 
In August 2018 Miss B experienced an issue with power steering failure. She was without 
use of the car for 13 days and had to arrange her own hire car.
The supplying dealer initially said it wouldn’t cover the cost of repairs. It later agreed to carry 
out repairs under the warranty.
In January 2020 the power steering failed again. Miss B says she hasn’t been able to use 
the car since.
Miss B complained to Creation. In response, it said it would cover the costs of repair if Miss 
B provided evidence that the fault was a manufacturing defect.
Miss B wasn’t happy with this response as she feels that she’s provided enough evidence 
already. To resolve her complaint, she wants Creation to allow her to reject the car, or to 
cover the costs of repairs.
Our investigator said that based on the evidence he’d seen, he couldn’t say that there was 
an underlying manufacturing defect or a failed repair.  But he said that Creation should 
reimburse Miss B the costs of hiring a car when the fault occurred in August 2918.
Miss B didn’t agree. She obtained an independent inspection of the car, as well as a further 
inspection by a mechanic, and said she didn’t think the car was of satisfactory quality 
because she’d experienced two power steering faults in less than two years.
Creation didn’t agree either. It said the first repair had been carried out under warranty and 
not because the car had been found to be of unsatisfactory quality. It didn’t think it should 
have to reimburse the hire costs.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the 
relevant circumstances such as (amongst other things) the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. Durability is also part of satisfactory quality, as although no-one would expect 
the component parts of a car to last forever, they also wouldn’t expect issues to arise with 
the car for a reasonable period of time. 
Miss B acquired the car when it was around 4 years old with mileage of around 17,500. I’d 
expect a second-hand car to require repair and maintenance sooner than a brand new car. 
So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent 
fault with the car, or alternatively that there was a failed repair to the power steering.
The fault with the power steering arose in August 2018, around 7 months after the point of 
supply. I can see that Miss B had covered around 5,900 miles since the point of supply, 
bringing the mileage of the car to 23,495. 
I’ve taken the age and mileage of the car into account, as well as the nature of the fault. I 
don’t think a reasonable person would expect a major component part such as the power 
steering to fail on a car of this age and mileage. 
I’m of the view that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality because the power steering wasn’t 
durable. I appreciate that the repairs were carried out under warranty, but this doesn’t mean 
that the car wasn’t of unsatisfactory quality. 
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. I can 
see that a repair was carried out. However, Miss B was without the use of the car for almost 
2 weeks and had to hire a car in the meantime. Because I’m persuaded that the car wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality, I think Miss B should be reimbursed the costs of the hire car whilst her 
car was being repaired.
I can see that there was another issue with the power steering in January 2020. I’ve looked 
at the available information to decide whether this was due to a failed repair of the previous 
fault. Miss B obtained an independent inspection report in which the engineer commented on 
this. The engineer concluded that because the steering rack had performed without issue for 
16 months since the repairs and because Miss B had covered 14,000 miles in the car during 
that time, it couldn’t be classed as a failed repair. 
I’ve looked at the further information provided by Miss B. There’s no dispute that there’s an 
issue with the steering now. But I don’t think there’s enough evidence to show that the 
current issue is a manufacturing defect or due to a failed repair.  
Putting things right
Based on what I’ve seen and taking account of the conclusions in the independent report 
and the wider circumstances of the case, I’m not persuaded that the car is of unsatisfactory 
quality or that there’s been a failed repair. So, I won’t be asking Creation to cover the costs 
of repairs or asking it to allow Miss B to reject the car. But as I’ve said, I’m of the view that 
Creation must reimburse Miss B the costs of the hire car relating to the period when the fault 
occurred in August 2018.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must reimburse Miss B the sum of £390 for the costs of a hire car.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2270621
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H complains that furniture supplied with finance from creation Consumer Finance 
Limited trading as Creation.Co.Uk wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to 
purchase some sofas from a retailer.
When the sofas were delivered in October 2019 Mrs H noticed pen and mud marks. A third 
party attended and inspected and cleaned the sofas.
Later in October 2019 Mrs H raised concerns about the material and a further pen mark. The 
third party attended again and cleaned the sofa. It inspected the material and said the 
creasing was a characteristic.
Mrs H complained to Creation. In response, Creation said the third-party inspection had 
found no fault with the sofas.
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said there wasn’t enough evidence to say 
that the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs H didn’t agree so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H acquired her sofa under a fixed sum loan agreement. The relevant law says the 
furniture should be of satisfactory quality when supplied. In order to uphold this complaint, I 
would need to be satisfied that the furniture was faulty when supplied, or that it wasn’t 
satisfactory for some other relevant reason such as not being as described, not being fit for 
purpose or not being durable.
When the sofa was delivered, it had marks on it. These marks have been successfully 
removed by cleaning by a third party, so I won’t be focussing on this in my assessment of 
whether the sofa was of satisfactory quality.
Mrs H’s main complaint is about the material. She says it creases easily.
I’ve looked at the inspection report. This says there isn’t a fault with the furniture. There are 
some photos with the report which show creases in the material. But the report says this is a 
characteristic of the material and that the creases will disappear when the material is 
dressed.
I understand that Mrs H isn’t happy with the outcome of the inspection. However, based on 
what I’ve seen, I’m unable to conclude that there’s a fault with the material which makes the 
sofa of unsatisfactory quality.
Since referring her complaint to this service, Mrs H has raised further concerns about the 
insides of the cushions. She says the foam has moved around and caused the cushions to 
be lumpy. She’s provided some photos showing this.
I’ve taken into account what Mrs H has said and I’ve looked at the photos. But I haven’t seen 
anything to suggest that this was a problem at the point of supply. It isn’t mentioned in the 
inspection report. I appreciate that the issue may have arisen subsequently, but the relevant 
law says that where a fault occurs after 6 months from the point of supply its up to the 
consumer to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. And I’m not persuaded 
that Mrs H has done this.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to conclude that the furniture is of unsatisfactory 
quality.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2284320
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t treated his claim, brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), fairly. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr S tells us that in November 2017 he ordered a new window and two doors (back and 
front) from a company I’ll call “E”. He says the purchase was financed through a fixed sum 
loan agreement supplied by Creation. Mr S explains that when E came to fit the items the 
window was the wrong size and so wasn’t installed. And that the design of the back door 
was incorrect. He says that when he complained to E it arranged to carry out the remedial 
works but then failed to show up for the appointments. He says he’s been advised that E has 
now ceased trading. Mr S is concerned that he’s in a situation where having ordered three 
matching items he’s been left with two doors of a different design. And as he’s been left with 
his original window the two doors don’t match this either. He feels this may impact the price 
he obtains if he comes to sell the house.
Creation originally told us that it had been advised by E that Mr S had refused to allow 
remedial works to be carried out. And it was unable to assist. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 September 2020. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint but on a different basis to our investigator. I said that in view of the 
breach of contract arising from the mismatch of the items supplied I thought a price reduction 
of 25% was appropriate. And that the total amount of interest charged should be reduced to 
reflect the lower purchase price.
Creation has replied agreeing with my provisional view. Mr S hasn’t responded. As there’s 
been no new information supplied and Creation has now changed its stance, I’m not minded 
to alter my provisional decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out 
below.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S’ complaint is that E breached the terms of the contract for the supply and fitting of the 
doors and windows. And that it then failed to put things right within a reasonable time. He 
states that this led to him experiencing serious inconvenience and financial loss.
I’m aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and I’ve done 
so using my own words. I’m not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If there’s 
something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored it. I haven’t. I’m satisfied I don’t 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr S brought his claim under section 75 CCA. Briefly summarised, this applies where a 
certain type of credit is used. And it’s subject to certain financial limits which are met in this 
case. Where there’s been a breach of contract by the supplier of goods or services it offers 
the consumer a like claim against the supplier of the relevant credit.
I think it’s important to set out my role. In considering this complaint, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that Mr S might have under Section 75. Rather, I’m deciding if Creation 
has done enough to resolve Mr S’ complaint fairly. And if it hasn’t, what it now needs to do.
As Creation has accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision, I will assume it 
also accepts that there was breach of contract by E. That being the case I needn’t go into 
further detail over this aspect. Instead I’ll concentrate on what I think is a fair and reasonable 
resolution of Mr S’ complaint.
Where’s there’s a breach of contract we’d usually try to put the consumer back in the same 
position as if the breach hadn’t occurred. Normally this would mean either completing 
remedial works so that the goods conformed to contract. Or, removing all the items supplied 
and giving Mr S a full refund. As E is no longer trading it’s not practical to adopt the first 
option. And the second option would cause further disruption for Mr S. Understandably he 
doesn’t want to go through all this again. He’s agreed to keep the items supplied. In these 
circumstances, I agree with the approach of our investigator which was to apply a price 
reduction as the fairest means to compensate Mr S.
The fixed sum loan agreement states that the total cash price of the goods is £4,036. The 
cash price of the items which Mr S purchased are said by E to be £420 (window which was 
not installed); £1,333 (back door – wrong design); front door (£2,233). The separate item 
prices only total £3,986. But as E is no longer trading it’s unlikely this anomaly can be 
explained. Fortunately, the difference represents a small fraction of the total contract price.
In determining the reduced price, the full price of the window (£420) should be refunded. But 
it’s not possible to be so precise in assessing the price reduction that should apply to the 
remaining issues. Whilst no direct complaint is made about the front door Mr S points out 
that he ordered three matching items. And he’s ended up with items that don’t match. He 
also states that he wasn’t given a separate breakdown of cost per item. So he can’t explain 
why the front door is far more expensive than the back door. I don’t think that is something 
that I shall be able to resolve.
Mr S has raised the issue of a potential loss being incurred when he comes to sell the house 
due to the non-matching doors. And whilst consequential losses can be recovered following 
a breach of contract it has to be shown they arise from the breach and are a foreseeable 
result of it. At the moment there is no accurate figure for such a loss (if any) as it remains 
purely speculative. And so many other factors would have to be considered including when 
such an event might take place. But as the items relate to a small fraction of the house 
value, I’m not going to ask Creation to pay any compensation separately for this aspect.
Having thought about it, I think Mr S’ more general point about the mismatch is valid. And 
that rather than view the two doors separately I should consider the overall result. The cost 
price of the two doors collectively was £3616 (using the total agreement cost, less the stated 
item price of the window, £4036 - £420). I can’t see that Mr S has complained about the 
quality of either door and presumably if this had been a concern he’d have said so. It’s more 
a case that he didn’t get what he ordered.
I think it would be fair and reasonable to apply a price reduction of 25% but across both 
items. This amounts to £904. Taken with the cost of the window the total price reduction I 
think is fair and reasonable is £1,324.
Mr S was also required to pay interest on the loan agreement. It’s not fair and reasonable 
that he should be required to pay the full amount of interest (£2,043.44) as this was based 
on the original cash price. Now that a price reduction is being applied it’s necessary for the 
interest figure to be adjusted to take this into account.
The fairest way to resolve this is for the agreement to be re-worked taking account of the 
price reduction. This means the cash price would be £2,712. As Mr S paid a deposit of £202 
the amount of credit supplied would be reduced to £2,510.
Creation should recalculate the agreement using £2,510 (not £3,834) as the sum of credit 
provided.
Mr S has also claimed he should be entitled to compensation for poor service. As the claim 
is founded on section 75, Creation isn’t responsible for the actions of E if they don’t amount 
to a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So it wouldn’t be liable for what can be 
characterised as poor customer service by E.
Complaints handling isn’t a regulated activity and it’s not something I could ask Creation to 
compensate Mr S for on behalf of E. Usually Mr S might’ve been able to pursue a separate 
complaint against E. But as it seems E has been liquidated that option appears to have been 
removed.
And loss of time spent on a complaint is not something that would ordinarily be considered. 
Any complainant ought reasonably to anticipate that there will necessarily be time used in 
progressing the complaint.
In summary, I’m upholding Mr S’ complaint and I think it’s fair and reasonable to apply a 
price reduction in respect of the items supplied through the loan agreement of £1,324. And 
to require Creation to recalculate the interest payable based on this figure.
Putting things right
Creation should now take the following action:
Rework the finance agreement by reducing the sum borrowed by a total of £1,324. And 
recalculate the interest charge based on this reduction.
If that results in a surplus having been paid on instalments to date, then that should be 
refunded to Mr S. Or if he prefers used as a partial early settlement of the agreement.
My final decision  
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m upholding this complaint.
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take the action I’ve stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2293619
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that he purchased a sofa and a chair which were of unsatisfactory quality. 
They were financed by a loan from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd and he wants them to 
provide him with a refund and write off the loan.
What happened
Mr M bought a sofa and a chair in 2017 from a retailer. The purchase was financed by a 
fixed sum loan agreement provided by Creation. The price of the goods was £2,145.20, the 
loan was for 48 months, interest free, with monthly repayments of £50. Mr M also purchased 
a warranty for the sofa which was added onto the finance agreement. 
Around a year after the purchase, Mr M said that the sofa started to become too 
uncomfortable to sit on. In summary, he said it sagged on one side of the seat cushion and 
when he sat down on it, he could feel the timber frame. He said this caused him great 
discomfort and didn’t think the sofa was fit for purpose or reasonably durable. He said he 
complained to the retailer, but they refused to assist him because of how much time had 
passed since the sale. 
Mr M then raised a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“S75”) with Creation. 
He said he wanted his money back for the sofa and for the loan to be written off. Creation 
arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out to determine whether there was a 
fault with the sofa. 
The inspector noted that there were no manufacturing defects with the sofa and that all of 
the components were functioning correctly and as expected. The inspector did note that the 
interior had softened which gave the impression of it dipping but he said this was to be 
expected with any sofa over time and with use.  
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she wasn’t persuaded 
there had been a breach of contract by the retailer as the independent inspection had 
concluded the sofa wasn’t faulty or not fit for purpose. 
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what’s fair and reasonable I’m required to take the law into account, which 
includes S75. I’ve therefore had this in mind when thinking about whether Creation acted 
fairly in declining Mr M’s request for a refund and for the loan to be cancelled. 
The general effect of S75 is that if Mr M has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the supplier of the sofa and chair, he can bring a like claim against 
the credit provider (in this case, Creation), providing certain conditions are met first. For 
completeness, I’m satisfied those requirements are met here. 
Mr M says the sofa and chair were not sufficiently durable nor were they fit for purpose. This 
is because he says the cushions sagged to such a degree that he could feel the timber 
frame when he sat down. He said the sofa functioned fine for the first 12 months and the 
chair for the first 18 months. The difference in how quickly they deteriorated he says is due 
to them not using the chair as often. 
Mr M has given a detailed account of the issues he says the sofa has and while I can 
understand how frustrated he is with its quality, I’m not persuaded Creation have acted 
unfairly in not upholding his claim and complaint. 
I say this because an independent inspection has been carried out on the sofa. I’ve reviewed 
the photographs from that inspection alongside the inspector’s comments. In his view the 
sofa isn’t faulty and while the cushions have had settlement over time, he says they are still 
fit for purpose and functioning as expected. 
The photographs also demonstrate that the internal and underside components of the sofa 
are intact and not broken. While Mr M strongly disagrees with the inspector’s conclusions 
about the sofa’s fitness for purpose and durability, I haven’t seen anything persuasive to say 
I should reasonably disregard the independent inspector’s comments. He does, after all, 
appear to be qualified to make assessments on the quality of the furniture. 
As it appears, on balance, that the sofa is fit for purpose, not faulty and reasonably durable, 
I’m not persuaded there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the furniture. For this reason, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly in declining Mr M’s claim 
and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2300550
--------------------------

The complaint
 Mr R complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In July 2019 Mr R was supplied with a car ad entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered 46,000 
miles.
Within a few days of having the car, Mr R noticed that he was having to fill up the oil every 
week. He also experienced a rattling noise, issues with the brakes, gears crunching. Mr R 
reported his concerns to the supplying dealer and asked to reject the car. He says they 
declined to do this.
Following this the engine failed in August 2019 and Mr R was no longer able to drive the car. 
He complained to Creation. The car was recovered to the supplying dealer and an 
independent inspection was carried out. Based on the findings of the inspection, Creation 
said it wouldn’t accept a rejection.
Mr R was unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she didn’t think the independent inspection 
report could be relied on because it was a limited inspection, and it didn’t say why the 
coolant and oil was low. The investigator thought that because there were so many issues 
with the car within a short time of the point of supply, it was more likely that the faults were 
present at the point of supply.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the inspection report concluded that the fault with the engine 
wasn’t present at the point of supply. It also said that Mr R had covered 1738 miles since the 
point of supply and the engine failure and that this could have impacted on the fault. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that a car must be of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would expect a second-hand car such as that supplied to Mr R to have a degree 
of wear and tear and to require repair more often than a brand-new car. So, in order to 
uphold the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car as opposed to faults due to general wear and tear.
I can see that Mr R raised a complaint within the first 30 days of getting the car. He 
complained about issues including the rattling noise, the gearbox crunching, brake issues 
and excessive oil consumption.
I’ve looked at the independent inspection report. This identifies several issues with the car 
including low oil and coolant, knocking noise from the engine, white smoke from the exhaust 
and weak battery. The engine had failed prior to the inspection so it wasn’t possible to road 
test the car at the inspection. Despite the limited inspection, its clear that at least two of the 
issues raised by Mr C in the first 30 days (low oil and knocking nose) were identified during 
the inspection.
Although the report concludes that “the current engine issue wasn’t present or developing at 
commencement of hire”, I don’t think this is sufficient to rebut the presumption that a fault 
which arises in the first 6 months is presumed to be present or developing at the point of 
supply unless the business can show otherwise. I say this because there’s nothing in the 
inspection report to suggest why the oil and coolant are low, or what the cause of the 
knocking noise if, or whether either of these two issues are related to the engine failure. 
It’s clear from the inspection that the car has several issues. At least two of these issues are 
the same as those reported by Mr C in the first 30 days. I think it’s more likely than not that 
the issues with the oil consumption and the knocking noise from the engine were present or 
developing at the point of supply. On the balance of probabilities, I think these issues 
contributed to the engine failure. Even if they didn’t, I don’t think a reasonable person would 
expect an engine to fail on a car of this age and mileage after only a few weeks from the 
point of supply. So I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
 Based on what I’ve seen, I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. I’m satisfied that Mr R experienced faults and reported these within the first 30 days. 
Because of this, he should be allowed to reject the car. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay

Refund any payments made by Mr R since 1 August 2019 together with 8% interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement

Remove any adverse information from Mr R’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2318684
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) won’t compensate him for 
a used car which he bought using finance provided by Creation, and which he says was 
faulty. He brings his complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
In July 2016, Mr O bought a used car from a dealer whom I’ll call “D”. The car was then 
some five and a half years old and had a recorded mileage of 60,520 miles. The cash price 
of the car was £5,900. Mr O was allowed a part exchange allowance of £500 by D.
The balance owed to D was provided by a loan of £5,400 from Creation to whom he was 
introduced through a broker by D. Mr O agreed to repay the loan and finance charges by 60 
monthly instalments of £113.03 each.
The car passed an MOT at the time of sale. About a month after delivery, and having 
travelled some 1,500 miles, Mr O returned the car to D with a water cooling system fault, 
which D repaired at its cost. Two years later, and having travelled a further 37,000 miles, the 
car suffered a different water cooling system fault. D repaired this, but at Mr O’s cost.
In May 2019, the car broke down. By this time the recorded mileage was 104,702 miles.    
Mr O was told by the garage which inspected it that the engine had seized and would need 
to be replaced. Mr O was told the oil pump wasn’t working properly.
Mr O said that the oil warning light had come on periodically during his ownership, including 
soon after delivery, but when he checked the sump it was full of oil. D had put this down to 
faulty warning lights when he raised it. Because of this history, Mr O asked D if it would 
replace the engine. D didn’t accept the car was faulty when sold. It offered to fit a 
replacement engine at cost, but wouldn’t assist further.
Mr O complained to Creation under section 75. Because Mr O had been introduced to 
Creation for the finance through D, there were circumstances in which Creation could be 
equally responsible with D for a misrepresentation or breach of contract in relation to the 
sale of the car.
However, in this case Creation said there was insufficient evidence in the form of a 
diagnostic report to confirm the engine had failed because of a fault present at the point of 
sale in 2016, rather than because of later wear and tear, and wouldn’t accept Mr O’s claim. 
Mr O complained to us about Creation’s refusal to accept his Section 75 claim.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there was an implied term that goods supplied to a consumer 
such as Mr O would be of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
However, the car was then five and a half years old and had travelled 60,520 miles. So a 
lower standard was expected than for a new car. Nearly three years passed, and the car 
covered a further 34,000 miles, before it broke down. The investigator didn’t think Mr O 
would have been able to drive this distance if the car was faulty when supplied. The car had 
also passed MOTs at the time of sale and since then.
Mr O had mentioned the issue with the oil light coming on intermittently, and the repairs to 
the water cooling system. But there was no indication of why the engine had seized, or that 
this was connected in any way to the earlier issues. 
The investigator agreed it was disappointing that the car should suffer a major issue before 
the finance agreement had been repaid. But he couldn’t say the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied, or that it would be fair to ask Creation to do anything more.
Mr O responded to say, in summary, that:

if a car was financed on a five year agreement, he thought it should last for the term 
of the loan;

he thought the engine should have lasted at least 120,000 miles; and

the previous owner had serviced the car every year, and so had he.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr O might have expected that his car would last for the length of his 
finance agreement without suffering a major breakdown. But the longer a car continues to be 
used, the greater likelihood there is of something going wrong. There is no certainty with 
older cars of how long they will last without suffering a serious fault.
In this case there is no mechanical evidence to say why the engine seized. And there is 
nothing to say the previous issues Mr O encountered had anything to do with the ultimate 
breakdown. Nearly three years passed after delivery, and Mr O covered 34,000 miles, before 
the car broke down.
So there isn’t sufficient evidence for me to say the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when 
supplied so that D was in breach of its sale contract with Mr O.
For Creation to be liable to Mr O under Section 75 it’s necessary for Mr O to establish a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by D in relation to the sale of the car. As I’m not 
satisfied that either of these was present, it follows that I can’t say that Creation has any 
liability to Mr O in respect of the car.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2349673
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs E complains that a carpet, that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited, wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mrs E entered in to a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, 
that she electronically signed in October 2018, to pay for some carpet which cost 
£3,112.74;

she complained about some issues with the carpet in July 2019 and it was inspected 
by the supplier and manufacturer – they said that the carpet was flattening and 
matting in all main tread areas but that wasn’t a manufacturing defect;

Mrs E arranged an independent inspection of the carpet in November 2019, for which 
she paid £195, and she also made a complaint using a retail alternative dispute 
resolution process – but that complaint, and the complaint that she’d already made to 
Creation Consumer Finance, weren’t upheld so she complained to this service;

our investigator said that Mrs E should be allowed to reject the carpet because she’d 
contacted the supplier but it didn’t agree that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality – so she 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: arrange for the carpet to be 
removed and collected at no cost to Mrs E; cancel the loan agreement with nothing 
further to pay; return the instalments that Mrs E had paid towards the credit 
agreement since she complained to it in July 2019; and reimburse the cost of the 
independent inspection;

Mrs E says that she shouldn’t have to pay anything for the carpet, her doors have 
been altered to accommodate the new carpet and Creation Consumer Finance’s 
customer service has been awful; 

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

to be able to uphold Mrs E’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the carpet and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to her claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mrs E’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

the independent inspection agreed with the other reports that the pile flattening 
wasn’t a manufacturing defect but it says: “This carpet is releasing tufts freely as a 
result of a weak tuft anchorage. The material’s constructional strength has been 
compromised by an inadequate latex encapsulation during manufacture. … I believe 
that this carpet installation has a latent material defect …”; and

I consider it to be more likely than not that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mrs E and that’s a breach of contract for which Creation 
Consumer Finance would be liable under section 75 – so I find that it’s response to 
Mrs E’s complaint hasn’t been fair and reasonable and that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for it to allow her to reject the carpet.
Putting things right
Mrs E doesn’t want to keep the carpet so I find that it would fair and reasonable for Creation 
Consumer Finance to arrange for the carpet to removed and taken away, at no cost to Mrs 
E, and that it should end the fixed sum loan agreement, also at no cost to her.
Mrs E has had the carpet for more than two years, since October 2018, and she complained 
about the issues with it in July 2019 – I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs E all of 
the repayments that she’s made under the agreement since she complained about the 
carpet in July 2019. I consider that it’s fair and reasonable for it to keep the repayments that 
she made before that date as payment for the use that she’s had from the carpet.
I sympathise with Mrs E for the issues that she’s had with the carpet and the customer 
service issues with Creation Consumer Finance – but section 75 doesn’t apply to 
compensation for customer service issues so, in these circumstances, I’m unable to require 
Creation Consumer Finance to compensate Mrs E for any customer service issues. But I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs E the 
£195 that she paid for the independent inspection. I don’t consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay her any compensation for the future cost that she may 
incur if she has to have her doors altered to fit a replacement carpet.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs E’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Arrange for the carpet to be removed and taken away at no cost to Mrs E.
2.
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mrs E.
3.
Refund to Mrs E the monthly repayments that she’s made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement since she complained about the carpet in July 2019.
4.
Pay £195 to Mrs E to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2376650
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation’s) decision not to approve 
an application he made to them for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr D, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Creation have explained to Mr D that their main reason for rejecting his credit application 
was that he didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to 
share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be 
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
But I would not think it fair for Creation to reject Mr D’s application because of his age. So, 
I’ve thought about whether that was likely to have been the case and I don’t think it was.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and given that this was a 0% APR application, 
where profit would be marginal, I would expect their internal lending criteria to be more 
stringent than usual.
I can see they asked Mr D about his employment status, income and home ownership and I 
wouldn’t expect them necessarily to consider his savings. 
I understand that Mr D says he met the advertised criteria to apply for the loan but that 
doesn’t mean that the business would necessarily approve his application and I’m not 
persuaded there is evidence here that Creation rejected Mr D’s application because of his 
age. I think the questions they asked him were in line with what I would expect other 
applicants to be asked.
Mr D is concerned that the rejection of his application will make other lenders consider him a 
bad credit risk. Whilst it would be usual for the business to report his credit enquiry to the 
credit reference agencies, I don’t think that would identify him as a bad credit risk and I can 
see Mr D has provided information that suggests his credit score remains excellent.
Overall, I’m not persuaded Creation did anything wrong when rejecting Mr D’s credit 
application.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2461936
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.’s (“Creation”) decision not to 
provide him with credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit to Mr W
because he didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to
share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
Whilst I understand that Mr W has provided evidence his credit score with the credit 
reference agencies is generally excellent I don’t think that means Creation necessarily had 
to accept his application. This was a six-month free credit application and I think it’s fair to 
say that in those circumstances a business would apply particularly stringent internal criteria.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think Creation have been unreasonable here and I’m not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2469562
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here was about 
three years and a half years old and had already completed a little over 30,000 miles. So, I 
think a reasonable person would expect some signs of wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that a consumer can return a car within 30 days if there’s 
something wrong with it and that if that’s the case the business do not have the right to insist 
on repairing the fault.
When Mr S returned the car to the dealership within the first 30 days he sent an email that 
explained it had gone into limp mode and that there was whistling, and the car was shaking. 
The business arranged for an independent inspector to look at the car, but the inspector 
couldn’t find anything wrong with it. He noted there were no fault codes stored and that the 
engine and transmission ran smoothly. He said there were no abnormal noises and no 
warning messages on the dashboard and that the car didn’t go into limp mode. He thought 
the car was of acceptable quality.
If there’s no fault with a vehicle the relevant legislation doesn’t allow a consumer to reject it 
within the first 30 days.
Mr S has subsequently provided his own report in which the inspector has explained the car 
has been the subject of damage repairs. But that inspector hasn’t suggested there’s 
anything wrong with the car and I don’t think the fact a car has been repaired is a reason to 
suggest it’s of unsatisfactory quality. The inspector hasn’t suggested any of the repairs are 
substandard and even if he had, as these issues were not the ones Mr S referred to in his 
rejection email, they have been referred after the 30-day rejection window has shut and the 
business would reasonably have a right to repair them.
Mr S has also provided a report from a franchised dealership. This identifies that the air 
sensor is faulty and there’s a squeaking from the V belt. Again, they’re not issues that were 
reported in March 2016 when Mr S returned the car. If a consumer identifies a problem 
within the first six months the relevant legislation suggests we should assume the fault was 
present when the car was supplied and that the business is responsible for the repair – 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. But this was a three and a half year old car and I 
don’t think it would be reasonable to ask the business to repair the sensor or investigate the 
squeaking from the V belt. I don’t think I have been provided with enough information to 
suggest they are significant issues and I think it’s reasonable to expect some wear and tear 
to be present on a car of this age and mileage. I don’t think the issues identified by the 
franchised dealership could reasonably be considered to suggest the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Mr S has identified that there have been several recalls on his make of vehicle. The 
presence of a recall doesn’t necessarily suggest a vehicle is of unsatisfactory quality and I 
note each of the recalls suggest the vehicle may be subject to the fault, they don’t suggest 
the car necessarily is and I’ve not seen any evidence of faults on the car relating to the recall 
notifications. The investigator has also confirmed through the manufacturer that none of the 
current outstanding recalls on this vehicle relate to airbags. So, I’m also not persuaded this 
car was of unsatisfactory quality as a result of these recalls.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think there is sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality and I’m not asking Creation to take any further action.
 My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2486663
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P complains about the issues that he’s had with some replacement windows that he paid 
for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mr P signed a purchase agreement in March 2018 with a third party for it to supply 
some replacement windows at a cost of £3,926 and he paid a cash deposit of £393;

he also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance to 
pay for the windows and he agreed to make 120 monthly payments of £64.31 to 
repay the loan;

there were some issues with the windows so Mr P complained to the supplier – it 
arranged for some remedial work but there was a delay in that work happening so it 
also paid him £100 compensation; 

Mr P wasn’t satisfied with the supplier’s response so complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance and then to this service – he says that he remains unsatisfied 
with the windows, he should receive more compensation and the interest should be 
reduced as he would’ve paid off the loan early if there hadn’t been these issues;

our investigator said that the time taken to carry out the remedial work wasn’t 
acceptable and he recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should pay £150 
to Mr P - but he didn’t think that it would be reasonable to ask it to do any further 
remedial work and he said that it was Mr P’s decision not to pay off the loan sooner;

Creation Consumer Finance has agreed to pay £150 to Mr P but he’s asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman; 

it’s clear that there were some issues with the windows and the supplier arranged for 
some remedial work but there was a delay in that work taking place – that will have 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr P;

the windows were repaired and Mr P accepted the repairs but he says that he 
remains unsatisfied with the quality of the work – I’m not persuaded that there’s 
enough evidence to show that the windows haven’t been repaired to an acceptable 
standard or aren’t of a satisfactory quality;

the supplier has stopped trading and I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to arrange or pay for any 
further remedial work on the windows;

Mr P had agreed to make 120 monthly payments of £64.31 to repay the loan and it 
was his decision about paying-off the loan early - he chose not to do so because of 
the issues with the windows but I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me require Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mr P any of the interest that’s 
payable under the loan agreement;

I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay £150 
to Mr P to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused by 
the delay in the remedial work; and

I sympathise with Mr P for the issues that he’s had with the windows and understand 
the frustration and disappointment that he feels – but I’m not persuaded that it would 
be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to pay any other compensation to Mr P or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay £150 to 
Mr P to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he was caused by the delay 
in the remedial work (which is in addition to the £100 compensation that he received from 
the supplier).
 My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr P’s complaint in part and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to pay him £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2514271
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t managed the
collection of his account arrears well.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S’s complaint to Creation was that there had been a delay in their response to him and
that they hadn’t assisted him to make arrangements to pay his arrears. I’ve considered those
issues, but I can see that Mr S has raised some further concerns. He’ll need to tell Creation
about those concerns and allow them to consider their response. But if he’s subsequently
dissatisfied he can then raise them with this service.
When the payment plan failed in in September 2019 Mr S told Creation he only wanted to
communicate with them in writing. Whilst I understand his desire to have a record of his
complaint progress I don’t think Creation were wrong to insist on speaking to him on the
phone. Mr S could speak on the phone, but he simply preferred not to.
Creation have explained that as the previous direct debit had been cancelled they wanted to
speak to Mr S to understand his situation and to see how they could help. I can understand
that it may not have been possible to set up a new direct debit on-line and I don’t think it
would be fair for me to interfere in Creation’s operational procedures that required them to
discuss such issues over the phone. It’s for Creation to decide how they communicate with
their customers. Although I’d expect them to make provision for those who were unable to
speak on the phone, I don’t think they need to make provision for those who are unwilling to.
Creation didn’t respond to Mr S for three weeks and they apologised for that. In the
circumstances, I don’t think the delay was excessive and I’m persuaded that an apology was
sufficient.
I’m therefore not asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2531967
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) reinstated a direct debit 
without permission and took an unauthorised payment.
What happened
Mr M purchased an item on using a Buy Now Pay Later credit option which resulted in Mr M 
entering into a credit agreement with Creation. The purchase price of the item was 
approximately £625, and the credit agreement was for 24 months.
Initially, Mr M was making the credit repayments by direct debit, but in August 2019 he 
cancelled the direct debit instruction and began making repayments by other means.
In November 2019, while Creation were carrying out administration on the account, the 
direct debit was mistakenly reinstated, and this led to the next payment due being taken by 
direct debit.
Mr M wasn’t happy about this and so he made a complaint. Creation returned the money 
taken by direct debit and removed the direct debit instruction. Creation also made an offer of 
£70 to Mr M by way of apology and compensation. But Mr M didn’t think that Creation’s 
compensation offer went far enough and thought instead that the remaining debt should be 
written off. So, he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint, but while they acknowledged that 
Creation had made a mistake in reinstating the direct debit without Mr M’s permission, they 
felt that Creation’s response to Mr M’s complaint, including the £70 offer of compensation, 
was reasonable given the circumstances. So, they didn’t uphold the complaint either.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note comments made by Mr M’s representative to our investigator that Mr M feels that the 
credit agreement should never have been approved by Creation as it wasn’t affordable to Mr 
M at that time. 
As our investigator explained, this service can only consider complaints after the business 
being complained about has had the opportunity to respond to the complaint itself. In this 
instance, because this aspect of the complaint wasn’t included in the initial complaint raised 
with Creation, it means that Creation haven’t had the opportunity to respond to it. This also 
means that this aspect of the complaint isn’t something that this service can look at in this 
instance. Because of this, it was explained to Mr M’s representative that the issue of 
unaffordability would need to be raised with Creation as a separate complaint - if it were 
something that Mr M wished to pursue further – and I have not considered this aspect of Mr 
M’s complaint any further at this time.
It follows that my review of this complaint will focus on the issues that I am able to consider – 
specifically, given that Creation have accepted that it was inappropriate for them to reinstate 
the direct debit without authorisation from Mr M, whether Creation’s response to Mr M’s 
complaint about this was fair and reasonable, given all the circumstances here.
I understand that the outcome that Mr M is seeking is that Creation should write off the 
remaining balance of the debt, and Mr M’s representative has suggested that the payments 
Mr M has already made against the credit agreement should also be reimbursed to him. 
However, where a customer has borrowed money from a business, whether as a personal 
loan or in the form of a credit purchase, such as is the case here, it’s almost always going to 
be fair that they pay this money back – in line with the terms agreed. 
I think that’s the case here. As explained above, the issue of whether this credit agreement 
should or should not have been authorised by Creation is not under consideration at this 
time. But it isn’t in dispute that Mr M agreed to the credit agreement, or that he purchased 
and has enjoyed the benefit of the item that he entered into the credit agreement for, and so 
I think it’s fair here that Mr M should pay the money back in line with the terms of the 
agreement that he entered into.
I can understand Mr M’s frustration that Creation reinstated the direct debit without his 
consent and took a payment via that method, but it doesn’t follow from this that Creation 
should write off the remaining balance of the debt or reimburse Mr M the payments that he 
has already made toward the credit agreement. 
In essence what Mr M is suggesting here is that the mistake made by Creation in reinstating 
the direct debit should invalidate the credit agreement in its entirety. However, I don’t feel 
that this is a reasonable expectation or that it represents a fair or proportionate outcome 
when considered against the overall circumstances of this complaint, especially considering, 
as I have previously mentioned, that Mr M has had the benefit of the money and the item he 
purchased with it.
It’s notable that Creation acknowledged their error in taking the direct debit payment and 
have taken steps to correct that error, including cancelling the direct debit, refunding the 
money taken, and making an offer of compensation. I feel that this is an appropriate 
response in these circumstances, and I note that this is commensurate with how this service 
would expect a business to respond, given the circumstances here. So, it follows that I won’t 
be asking Creation to take any further action beyond the action they have already 
undertaken and the offer of compensation that they have already made.
I realise that this won’t be the outcome that Mr M was wanting, but I hope he can understand 
why, given what I have explained above, I don’t think that Creation should consider 
invalidating the credit agreement because of what has happened here, and why I think that 
the complaint response already issued by Creation, including the £70 offer of compensation, 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2559203
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B bought carpets for his five bedrooms, landings and stairs from a retailer, S, which was 
also to arrange fitting. He paid for the carpets and fitting through a loan which S arranged 
with Creation Finance Ltd. He says that the work was not completed and that, as the finance 
provider, Creation, is equally liable with S.
What happened
Background to the complaint
In or about June 2019 Mr B took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for just over 
£2,700. The loan had been arranged by S to cover the purchase of carpets and underlay, 
together with fitting.
There were however a number of problems with the fitting of the carpets. It’s not necessary
for me to set out all the details here, but by the end of the year carpets had still not been
fitted in one of Mr B’s bedrooms, two landings and two flights of stairs.
Mr B complained to S and (as the finance provider) to Creation. S offered to reduce the price
of the work by 10%, or £273, and to arrange for the completion of the work. Mr B was not
happy with that proposal and referred the matter to the retail ombudsman, who considered
the complaint about S. Mr B also arranged for a carpet to be fitted in the remaining bedroom,
at a cost of some £550.
The retail ombudsman issued a decision in February 2020. He considered that the offer of a
10% reduction was fair in the circumstances. The ombudsman noted however that there
were a number of areas in which Mr B had not submitted any supporting evidence. It seems
too that he made his decision on the understanding that the work had by then been
completed; subsequent correspondence suggests that was not the case, however.
In that further correspondence between Mr B and S, S offered Mr B two options. He could
have a reduction in price for the parts of the work that had not been completed. S calculated
that this would amount to £1,768.49, based on the cost of unfitted carpet, underlay, grippers
and bars. Alternatively, he could accept the retail ombudsman’s recommendation of a 10%
reduction in the price and have the work completed.
Mr B didn’t accept either offer. He said that he should, in addition, be compensated for the
extra £550 he had spent on having the fifth bedroom carpeted, along with compensation for
the time he had taken off work.
Referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service
At around the same time, Mr B referred the matter to this service, asking us to consider his
complaint about Creation. One of our investigators did that and recommended that Creation:

work with S to arrange cancellation of the carpets which had not been fitted;

apply the 10% discount to the value of the contract;

provide a breakdown of the amount left to pay under the loan;

refund the cost of the replacement carpet which Mr B bought from a different supplier;

pay Mr B £150 as compensation for its own handling of the complaint.
Mr B clarified that carpet to cover the fifth bedroom and the landing and stairs had not been
delivered. There was no unused carpet at his property. Creation didn’t accept the
investigator’s view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It said that, as the retail
ombudsman had already considered Mr B’s complaint about S, it wasn’t appropriate for this
service to look again at what were the same issues.
My provisional decision
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I thought 
that any award I might make was likely to be very similar to the offer that S had already 
made to resolve things. It wasn’t therefore appropriate to make that award against Creation. 
I set out my reasons below, as they appeared in my provisional decision. 
I’ll comment firstly on Creation’s position as finance provider. Because it arranged the loan
under arrangements it had with S, Creation is, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974, equally liable to Mr B for any claim he might have against S for breach of contract or
misrepresentation.
Creation says that this service should not consider Mr B’s complaint, because the retail
ombudsman has already considered his complaint about S. I can understand Creation’s
argument here, especially as the effect of section 75 is that Mr B has a “like claim” against
Creation to any claim he has against S. It is however clear that the retail ombudsman’s
decision was made on the (incorrect) understanding that all the carpets had been supplied
and fitted. It was also influenced by a lack of evidence in some areas, some of which has
now been provided. In the circumstances, I don’t believe it would be appropriate for me to
exercise my discretion not to consider Mr B’s complaint. I will however comment further on
the involvement of the retail ombudsman on [page 3] of this decision.
S does not appear to dispute that it was in breach of its contract with Mr B. It agreed to
supply and fit carpets for five bedrooms, two landings and two sets of stairs. It has only
supplied and fitted carpets for four bedrooms but has, through the loan agreement, been
paid the full amount. The main issue I need to consider, therefore, is what the appropriate
remedy is and whether I should require Creation to provide it.
The usual remedy for a breach of contract is to put the parties in the position they would
have been in if the contract had been performed. If that had happened, Mr B would have had
all his carpets fitted for the price he paid. He would also have had the work completed within
a reasonable time and with proper care.
Mr B indicated in the past that he still wanted the work completed with the same carpets – so
they matched those that were fitted. That is something that S offered, with a 10% price
reduction. It isn’t however something that Creation, as a finance provider, can arrange. If this
solution is acceptable to Mr B, therefore, I think it is best for him to take it up again with S. I
do note however that Mr B has since fitted a different carpet in the fifth bedroom, so this
remedy is no longer available in the way it was when offered.
As an alternative, S also offered to refund the amount of the overall price attributable to the
missing carpets. It’s strongly arguable that this would place Mr B in the position he would
have been in if the contract had been performed, since it would provide funds with which he
could have the remaining carpets supplied and fitted. A similar outcome would be achieved
by a reduction in the balance owing under the loan agreement.
In my view however it wouldn’t be fair for Mr B to have the benefit of both remedies – a
reduction in price and a refund of part of it. Nor do I believe that it would be fair to reimburse
the extra money that Mr B paid for the carpet in the fifth bedroom; a refund of the price of the
carpet that S should have supplied would adequately compensate him for not receiving it.
The investigator said as well that Creation should have assisted Mr B in his dealings with S,
and suggested compensation of £150 in recognition of that. However, Mr B was dealing with
S and I don’t believe that would have been helped by Creation; in my view it was appropriate
for Mr B and S to discuss how best to resolve the issue.
There is in my view a more fundamental issue here. Mr B has been in correspondence with
S, which has made offers of settlement. This is not a case where a supplier has, for
example, refused to engage or is no longer in business. Work has not been completed, and
Creation is not in a position to ensure that it is.
In addition, Mr B referred his complaint about S to the retail ombudsman. Discussions
continued after the ombudsman’s decision, but no resolution was reached. To some extent,
therefore, Mr B is seeking from Creation a remedy that he hasn’t been able to obtain from S.
I would note as well that the loan agreement and the sales contract are separate in this
case. By that I mean that, even if Mr B were to reach an agreement with S, he would still
owe Creation the same under the loan agreement. The two are linked to some degree by
section 75 and by the fact that S acted as an intermediary, but there’s no direct link.
My present view is that any award that I might make in the context of this complaint is
unlikely to vary significantly from S’s existing offers – save that I would require Creation to
implement it. It would then be for Creation to seek reimbursement under any arrangements it
might have with S. For that reason, I believe it’s more appropriate for Mr B to continue to
deal directly with S to resolve this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, I say that in the context of this complaint only. I make no
comment about other complaints under section 75, where often it is appropriate for this
service to make awards requiring finance providers to resolve complaints about the supply of
goods and services by third parties.
In the circumstances here, however, I do not believe it would be appropriate or helpful to the
overall resolution of Mr B’s complaint for me to make an award – although it may be that my
comments about the underlying issues are helpful. I shall however review these provisional
findings in the light of any further submissions the parties might make.
Mr B’s response to my provisional decision
Mr B did not accept my provisional decision and said, in summary:

The offer of a 10% reduction and delivery of the remaining carpets would not properly 
compensate him, since he had already £550 for a carpet for the fifth bedroom.

The alternative offer would not compensate him either, because again he had paid £550 
for the fifth bedroom carpet. S had not provided a breakdown showing how it had 
reached the figure in the offer. 

S’s handling of the matter had been very poor. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr B thinks the offer of a 10% overall price reduction is not reasonable. I 
noted in my provisional decision that the retail ombudsman thought it was, but I also said it 
appeared that conclusion was reached on the basis of incomplete information. I also said 
that this remedy could no longer be provided, since S could not complete the carpet fitting in 
the fifth bedroom. 
The alternative remedy, however, was based on a refund of a proportion of the overall 
contract price. The intention was to put Mr B in a position where he could pay to have the 
missing carpets supplied and fitted. That would include the carpet in the fifth bedroom. As a 
principle, that seems to me to be broadly fair. A reduction and a refund of the £550 Mr B 
spent on different carpet would, in part, compensate Mr B twice. 
I can understand why Mr B would like a breakdown of S’s offer. Creation is not however in a 
position to provide that. 
I note as well that Mr B is very unhappy about the way S handled his complaint. Under 
section 75, however, the claim Mr B has against Creation is a “like claim” to any claim he 
has against S for breach of contract or misrepresentation. His complaint about the way S 
dealt with his complaint is not a claim for breach of contract or for misrepresentation, so it’s 
not something for which I can properly make an award against Creation. 
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view 
that Mr B’s concerns are better dealt with by S and that I should not make an award against 
Creation.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr B’s complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2573419
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that he wasn’t provided with the service he should have been when he 
contacted Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) about issues following the return of a car 
he had acquired under a fixed term loan agreement.
What happened
Mr B returned the car he acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement with CCF in 2010. He 
says that he tried to contact CCF about the issues he had experienced since returning the 
car but he didn’t receive the service he should have and didn’t receive call backs when 
requested.
CCF says that the emails Mr B sent in April 2018 but CCF weren’t sent to a customer 
services inbox. In 2019, Mr B sent further emails to CCF which CCF says it responded to 
within the required timeframe.
Our investigator didn’t uphold this complaint. She saw that CCF had replied to the emails 
Mr B sent in 2019 in a timely way.
Mr B didn’t accept our investigator’s view.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised a complaint about the information and service he was provided with when he 
handed back his car in 2010. This part of his complaint is being dealt with separately. This 
decision relates to Mr B’s complaint that he wasn’t provided with the service he should have 
been when trying to discuss the issues with CCF in 2018 and 2019.
I have looked at the emails provided. The emails sent in April 2018 weren’t sent to CCF’s 
customer services email address. Based on what I have seen Mr B followed up on these 
emails in October 2019 at which time his question was directed to the correct email address 
and email correspondence took place between Mr B and CCF. Having looked at the emails 
from this time I find that CCF did respond in a timely way. I can see there were issues with 
CCF calling Mr B both with getting a correct contact number and then with the times of the 
calls. However, I can see that CCF did attempt to make call backs to Mr B and, overall, I find 
it did try to respond to Mr B’s requests in a timely way.
Overall, based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say CCF did 
anything wrong and so I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2584918
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs I complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t replace a faulty sofa that she 
paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement or refund to her the amount that she paid for the 
sofa.
What happened
Mrs I entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, that she 
electronically signed in December 2019, to pay for a sofa. She says that the sofa was broken 
when it was delivered and that the supplier agreed to replace it. But the supplier has stopped 
trading and she hasn’t received a replacement so she made a claim to Creation Consumer 
Finance in July 2020 under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
It said that, as the claim was received over six months after receipt of the sofa, it would 
require an independent report to confirm the fault and the cause of the fault, to enable it to 
review Mrs I’s claim further. It says that it hasn’t received an independent report. Mrs I wasn’t 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that it 
was fair for Creation Consumer Finance to ask Mrs I to provide more evidence to validate 
her section 75 claim and that it had dealt with her claim fairly. 
Mrs I has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
complained to the supplier many times about receiving a broken sofa from the first day and 
didn’t get any response. She says that she was making the payments every month as 
planned but stopped the payments because she hasn’t received a replacement sofa.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mrs I paid for the sofa using credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance in the 
form of a fixed sum loan;

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

to be able to uphold Mrs I’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the sofa and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to her claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mrs I’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mrs I says that the sofa was broken when it was supplied to her and that she 
complained to the supplier but it didn’t respond – she also says that the supplier 
agreed to replace the sofa but I’ve seen no other evidence to show that it had agreed 
to replace the sofa;

Mrs I made a section 75 claim to Creation Consumer Finance in July 2020 – which 
was more than six months after she bought the sofa – and she says that the supplier 
has stopped trading;

Creation Consumer Finance says that it received an update from the supplier 
confirming that it was going to send in its technicians - which didn’t match Mrs I’s 
understanding that the supplier was going to replace her sofa;

it said that, as Mrs I’s claim was received over six months after receipt of the sofa, it 
would require an independent report to confirm the fault and the cause of the fault, to 
enable it to review her claim further – but she hasn’t provided it with an independent 
report;

I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that the sofa was broken 
when it was received by Mrs I or that the supplier had agreed to replace it – nor am I 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that there’s been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in these circumstances;

I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to require 
Mrs I to provide evidence in the form of an independent report to show that there was 
a fault with the sofa and what was likely to have caused it;

Mrs I hasn’t provided it with the evidence that it required and I consider that it’s acted 
fairly and reasonably in not taking any further action on her claim;

I sympathise with Mrs I for the difficulties that she’s experienced but I consider that 
Creation Consumer Finance’s response to her claim has been fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances; 

Mrs I says that she’s stopped making the monthly repayments under the fixed sum 
loan agreement to Creation Consumer Finance – that puts her in breach of the 
agreement and I suggest that she contacts it to try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement for the amount that she owes it;

if she’s experiencing financial difficulties, it’s required to respond to those difficulties 
positively and sympathetically – but, if she doesn’t make the payment to Creation 
Consumer Finance, I consider it to be more likely than not that it will take further 
action, to the extent that it’s legally entitled to do so, to recover that amount from her; 
and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Creation Consumer Finance to arrange for the sofa to be replaced, to refund to Mrs I 
any of the money that she’s paid for the sofa, to pay her any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mrs I’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2586685
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) won’t replace a phone he 
purchased (and which is faulty). He also complains that his claim for a new phone and then 
his complaint about not being provided with one wasn’t adequately investigated by Creation.
Mr C’s phone was financed, in part, by credit provided by Creation.
What happened
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldn’t be upheld. In summary he said that as the retailer had agreed to inspect the phone 
if Mr C was to return it, Creation didn’t need to anything further, at least at this stage.
Mr C didn’t agree with the investigator’s view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that I’ve come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons.
Mr C submits that because Creation has been unable to establish that the reported fault with 
the phone wasn’t present, or developing, when it was first supplied to him, he is entitled 
under various legislation to a replacement phone.
However, Mr C has misunderstood his rights under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the   
Consumer Rights Act 2015, the two pieces of legislation to which, as I understand it, he is 
referring to.
Mr C is correct in that under the above legislation it’s for Creation or its agents to establish 
the reported fault with the phone wasn’t present or developing when it was first supplied to 
him, rather than him having to prove it was. This is because Mr C first reported a fault with 
the phone within six months of being supplied with it. 
But Creation can only meet its obligations to Mr C if it, or its agents, can inspect the phone. 
And I’m afraid that as Mr C won’t allow Creation or its agents to do so, at least at the current 
time, I find that Creation need do nothing further in respect of Mr C’s claim or complaint.
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that I’ve seen nothing in Creation’s handling 
of Mr C’s claim or complaint that would warrant me making any award in Mr C’s favour.
My final decision
My final decision is I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2586872
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains about the way that Creation Consumer Finance has dealt with his credit 
account.
What happened
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to Creation Consumer Finance on 13 January 2021. In my provisional decision I set out 
what had happened as follows: 
“Mr M used his credit account with Creation Consumer Finance to buy an item from a 
retailer. He returned the item to the retailer for a refund in October 2019 but Creation 
Consumer Finance says that the refund was issued to a relative of Mr M, who also 
had a card on his account, and who had made a payment for a similar amount from 
the account.
That caused Mr M’s account to be in arrears so he complained to Creation Consumer 
Finance. It said that an error had been made by the retailer and that it had removed 
the arrears from his account and requested that his credit report be corrected to 
remove any negative activity that this had caused.
Mr M wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our 
investigator didn‘t recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didn’t think 
that Creation Consumer Finance had done anything wrong and there was no adverse 
information recorded on his account which was adversely affecting his credit file.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by ombudsman”.
And I said:
“Mr M returned an item to the retailer for a refund of £99 in October 2019. Creation 
Consumer Finance says that a card on his credit account had been used to make a 
payment of £99.73 in May 2019. It also says that it “appears the £99 refund was 
issued to the 3rd party, as there has been a similar payment received on this account 
and it was paid using a card that was not the customers. Our process is to refund 
payments back to the source and it seems this was the case”. 
But it was Mr M who was returning the item that had been bought using his credit 
account and I consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that the refund would 
be credited to his account. That didn’t happen and I don’t consider that Creation 
Consumer Finance has given a clear explanation, supported by relevant 
documentation, as to why the refund was paid to his relative. I’m not persuaded that 
Creation Consumer Finance has provided enough evidence to show that the refund 
was correctly paid to Mr M’s relative.
I’ve seen no evidence to show that Mr M wasn’t able to get the refund back from his 
relative so I’m not persuaded that he’s been caused a direct financial loss as a result 
of the refund being paid to his relative. I don’t consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to pay the £99 to Mr M.
Creation Consumer Finance says that it has asked for Mr M’s credit report to be 
corrected to remove any negative activity that this had caused. I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to ensure that no adverse information is, or has 
been, recorded on Mr M’s credit file relating to any arrears on his account caused by 
the refund being made to his relative.
These events will have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. I consider 
that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to pay him £25 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. I’m 
not persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified”.
Mr M said that the refund was paid to his ex-girlfriend's mother, he wasn’t notified of that at 
the time of the refund and she wasn’t able to refund him – and he now has no contact with 
her. He says that he’s not able to obtain the refund from his ex-girlfriend's mother and 
believes that Creation Consumer Finance has a legal obligation to refund him. Creation 
Consumer Finance said that it agreed with the outcome because it couldn’t see that it had 
notified Mr M of the reason that it had to return payments to the source which is that 
payments are returned to the account or card they came from due to its anti-money 
laundering policy.
I then issued a second provisional decision to Mr M and to Creation Consumer Finance on 
11 March 2021. In that provisional decision I said:
“Mr M returned the item that had been bought using his credit account and I consider 
that it was reasonable for him to expect that the refund would be credited to his 
account. Creation Consumer Finance still hasn’t given a clear explanation, supported 
by relevant documentation, as to why the refund was paid to Mr M’s ex-girlfriend’s 
mother and not credited to his account.
Mr M has explained why he is unable to get the refund from his ex-girlfriend’s mother 
so, although Creation Consumer Finance has paid the refund to her, I consider that 
Mr M has suffered a financial loss because he didn’t receive the refund and is unable 
to get it. 
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation 
Consumer Finance to pay £99 to Mr M to reimburse him for the refund that I consider 
that he should have received. I also consider that it should pay interest on that 
amount and that it should take the other actions that I set out in my provisional 
decision”.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr M or Creation Consumer Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr M has accepted my provisional decision and Creation Consumer Finance says that it 
agrees to refund the £99 to Mr M but not to pay him the £25 compensation. It says that there 
has been no mention of Mr M not being able to get the money back for nearly a year and 
he’s had all that time to ask for the money from the third party but it wasn’t made aware that 
he couldn’t do so because he was no longer with his partner until it received my provisional 
decision. It says that all it was told was that Mr M feels that the refund should have been 
paid to him directly with no mention of any barriers.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Creation 
Consumer Finance has agreed to refund the £99 to Mr M. He returned the item in October 
2019 but won’t receive the refund until it’s paid to him by Creation Consumer Finance. I 
consider that these events will have caused Mr M some distress and inconvenience. I still 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to pay him £25 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to take the actions 
set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Pay £99 to Mr M to reimburse him for the refund that I consider that he should have 
received.
2.
Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date that he 
returned the item to the date of settlement.
3.
Ensure that no adverse information is, or has been, recorded on Mr M’s credit file 
relating to any arrears on his account caused by the refund being made to his ex-
girlfriend’s mother.
4.
Pay £25 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 2 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2606183
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that a carpet that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in August 2017 to pay for some carpet. The cost of the carpet was 
£1,099.17 and he agreed to make 48 monthly loan repayments of £22.89 to Creation 
Consumer Finance. The loan was interest free.
He also signed the supplier’s order form for the carpet which also dealt with the 
arrangements for the fitting of the carpet – Mr S was to pay £203 directly to the fitter for the 
fitting of the carpet and was providing his own underlay and grippers which would be fitted 
by the fitter for an additional payment of £25.
The carpet was fitted in September 2017 but Mr S says that the carpet was losing pile in the 
hallway, it had been cut short in several places in every room and needed stretching, the 
grippers fitted had not been placed close enough to the edge of the skirting or fixed down 
correctly in the living room, there was a hole in the hallway carpet and blood on the carpet 
on the upstairs landing, and every room’s skirting board had been damaged when the carpet 
had been cut to size. He complained to the supplier in December 2017.
It arranged for the carpet to be inspected in November 2018. The inspection report said: 
“Losing tufts to kitchen. Gaps around all edges due to grippers not close enough to skirting 
for the whole job … Carpet is lifting at edges and doorway. All skirtings have knife marks”. 
The supplier then wrote to Mr S and said: “Now we have received the report and findings we 
can confirm that the carpet will need to be rectified by a fitter. As the carpet was fitted in 
2014 this is now out of the 12 month fitting warranty provided by your fitter you can contact 
the original fitter [name and number provided] for a quote to rectify the issue or you are 
welcome to seek the assistance of a local fitter”. 
It later said that the warranty period for the carpet had expired and that that the warranty had 
been invalidated because Mr S had supplied his own underlay and grippers. A claim was 
then made in July 2019 to Creation Consumer Finance under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 – but it said that it wasn’t liable under section 75 as the carpet was fitted by 
a third party and not by the supplier. 
Our investigator then considered Mr S’s complaint but he didn’t recommend that it should be 
upheld. He said that: the fitting of the carpet wasn’t part of the financial agreement so issues 
with the fitting of the carpet couldn’t be considered against Creation Consumer Finance; 
although the warranty wasn’t discussed the choice to go with different grippers was Mr S’s 
and he didn’t consider that the warranty had been misrepresented to him; and although he 
thought it likely that Mr S had been told that the warranty wouldn’t be affected by his grippers 
and underlay, he didn’t think that Creation Consumer Finance was liable to fix or replace the 
carpet as the evidence didn’t suggest that the quality issues are just down to how the carpet 
was made rather than how it was fitted.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the pile 
of the carpet is faulty and that it wouldn’t be damaged by the fitter. He’s provided photos of 
the carpet and says that this outcome isn’t fair or reasonable.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Mr S paid for the carpet using credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance;

in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

the breach of contract about which Mr S is complaining is that the carpet isn’t of 
satisfactory quality – so to be able to uphold his complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance, I must be satisfied that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to his claim under 
section 75 wasn’t fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr S’s 
claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mr S has also complained about the fitting of the carpet – but I consider it to be clear 
from the supplier’s order form and the fixed sum loan agreement that Mr S paid the 
fitter directly for the fitting of the carpet and that the fitting wasn’t financed under the 
loan agreement;

I don’t consider that Mr S used credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
for the fitting and I don’t consider that it is liable to him for any issues arising from the 
fitting of the carpet;

the supplier arranged for the carpet to be inspected in November 2018 and the 
inspection identified a number of issue with the fitting of the carpet – but didn’t 
identify a fault with the carpet;

Mr S has described his issues with the carpet and has provided photos showing 
those issues – but he’s provided no other evidence to show that there’s a 
manufacturing defect with the carpet or that it was faulty when it was supplied to him;

I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence in these circumstances to show that 
the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S – and I consider 
it to be more likely than not that the issues with the carpet were either caused when it 
was being fitted or as a result of the way that it was fitted;

I also consider that the supplier hasn’t responded to Mr S’s complaint as well as it 
should have done – including its statement that the carpet was fitted in 2014 and its 
claims that the warranty period had expired and that the warranty had been 
invalidated – but Creation Consumer Finance isn’t liable under section 75 for such 
issues with the supplier’s response to his claim and I’m unable to require it to take 
any action about those issues; and

I sympathise with Mr S for the issues that he’s had with the carpet – and the other 
issues that he’s described – but I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Creation Consumer Finance to: arrange and pay for the carpet to be repaired 
or replaced; to end the fixed sum loan agreement; to refund to Mr S any of the 
monthly loan repayments that he’s made to it; to pay him any other compensation; or 
to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr S’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2609877
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K complains that his balance transfer offer from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(Creation) wasn’t honoured.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr K applied for a credit card from Creation. It offered a 12-month interest-free 
balance transfer. He completed the application and was accepted. He signed a direct debit 
form for payments to come from his bank account. The balance transfer of £3150, plus a fee 
of £94.50 was debited to the account. The direct debit wasn’t paid until September 2019. Mr 
K was charged two late payment fees. The balance transfer offer was withdrawn. His credit 
file was marked with two late payments.
Mr K complained in February 2020. He didn’t notice anything was wrong until September 
2019 – when he returned from holiday and he got texts from Creation. He said he’d set up 
the direct debit properly. It wasn’t his fault it was been cancelled. He shouldn’t have to pay 
interest on the debt or pay late fees. Nor should his credit file be affected. He said he’d tried 
to sort things out with Creation before sending in a formal complaint. He’s told us that he’s 
been charged interest of £601.37 up to September 2020.
Creation replied in April 2020. They said the direct debit was set up on 21 June 2019, but it 
was cancelled by either Mr K or his bank on 28 June 2019. No payments were received in 
August 2019 or September 2019. So, two late fees of £12 were charged. The direct debit 
was set up again when Mr K called them on 10 September 2019. One late fee was refunded 
as a gesture of goodwill. Because payments had been missed, the balance transfer offer 
had been withdrawn in line with its terms and conditions. Mr K’s credit file had been marked 
as they had an obligation to do this. They didn’t think they’d done anything wrong.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
September 2020 – he said that he could see that Creation hadn’t cancelled the direct debit in 
June 2019. It had been reinstated in September 2019. He said Creation could withdraw the 
balance transfer offer because of the missed payments – its Terms and Conditions covered 
this. They could also charge late fees – and mark Mr K’s credit file. So, he thought Creation 
had acted reasonably and had done nothing wrong.
Mr K asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K’s frustration here. He successfully applied for a new credit card with a 
balance transfer offer. And, as a result of the direct debit getting cancelled, he lost the 
balance transfer offer, paid interest and late fees – and had his credit file marked with late 
payments. He has complained also to his bank about what happened – that’s also being 
reviewed by this service.
The key issue here is the cancellation of the direct debit in June 2019. Creation have 
showed us their records which show that it was set up on 21 June 2019 and then cancelled 
on 28 June 2019. The description is stated as “code 1”. Creation have told us this means 
“cancellation instructed by payer”.  In Creation’s final response, they said the direct debit 
was “cancelled by you/your Bank”. So, it seems clear that the direct debit wasn’t cancelled 
by Creation. So, they’re not at fault. 
Creation could withdraw its balance transfer offer – this is in its terms and conditions which 
say: ‘If you break this Agreement….If you fail to make prompt payment of the monthly 
payment or if you, or an Additional Cardholder, break any other term of this Agreement …, 
we shall be entitled:…
(b) to charge interest forthwith at the standard rate for Standard Purchases on any
Promotional Purchases and/or Balance Transfers then outstanding on the Account”
The terms and conditions also give them the right to charge late fees and advise credit 
reference agencies. Also, all lenders have an obligation to report accurate data to credit 
reference agencies.
I can only ask Creation to change something if they’ve done something wrong or treated Mr 
K unfairly. And I can’t say they have here. They didn’t cancel the direct debit. But because of 
its cancellation - payments were missed. And Creation were entitled to stop the interest-free 
balance offer and charge Mr K interest at its normal commercial rate. They charged Mr K two 
late fees of £12 but refunded one of these as a gesture of goodwill. And they had a duty to 
advise credit reference agencies of the late payments. 
So, while Mr K will be disappointed by my decision, I’m not asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2612734
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) didn’t place a 
default on his credit card account in 2018. He feels that given his circumstances at the time, 
this should have happened.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr T took out a credit agreement with Creation. And apart from a couple of 
occasions where a payment due on the account was missed – and the arrears were then 
later brought up to date, the account ran as agreed.
But, from February 2018 Mr T fell into arrears on the account. And in April 2018 he 
contacted Creation to let it know he was experiencing financial difficulties. Mr T told Creation 
he was working with a debt support charity and looking to make payment arrangements with 
any creditors, so his financial circumstances were more affordable. 
Because of this, Creation agreed that it would with Mr T that it would put his account on hold, 
until it received a financial statement and proof of income from him, which would enable it to 
look at coming to a reduced payment plan with him.
In June 2018 Mr T provided Creation with his financial statement – noting he would be able 
to pay £50 a month to it. However, at this point Creation still needed to see Mr T’s proof of 
income. So, it asked for this. And Mr T’s account remained on hold.
Mr T then provided this in September 2018. Creation asked some questions of Mr T at this 
point, to ensure the payment plan was affordable. The payment plan of £50 a month, for the 
next six months was agreed. And this went ahead, with the first payment being made in 
October 2018.
Following the above arrangement, Mr T has raised his concerns about how Creation handled 
his account, when he let it know he was in financial difficulties. Specifically, Mr T feels that 
Creation should have applied a default to his account in 2018. Mr T said because in 2018 he 
fell behind with his contractual agreement, and he was in around eight months of arrears.
Mr T noted that the Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) principles on arrears, 
arrangements and defaults said that a default should be placed on an account within three to 
six months of it falling into arrears. And, he highlighted that this didn’t happen in his case. 
Mr T said if a default had been applied to his account in 2018, he would be in a better 
position than he is now – because the debt would have fallen off his credit file quicker. He 
said that if a default had been applied in 2018, this meant it would have no longer been on 
his file by 2024. But now he was paying £50 a month, he wouldn’t finish paying the amount 
until around 2028 – and so the account would be on his file for longer.
Creation looked into Mr T’s complaint and didn’t agree it had acted unfairly. It said Mr T had 
come to it in order to arrange a payment plan, and it had fairly put the account on hold whilst 
this was being sorted. It also said that the ICO principles provided an exception to defaults 
being applied three to six months of arrears – this being where a payment plan was in place.
Creation also noted that Mr T hadn’t broken the payment arrangement agreed, and it 
considered its handling of the situation to be correct.
Because Mr T didn’t agree, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review. 
Our investigator reviewed this complaint and didn’t think it should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation had acted reasonably, and in line with the ICO principles. So, he didn’t think 
Creation should have done anything differently.
Mr T responded and didn’t agree. He said he had broken his original contractual agreement, 
and therefore a default should have been applied within three to six months. He also noted 
that the ICO principles mentioned that a financial business shouldn’t put a consumer in a 
worse l position by accepting an arrangement to pay, when if the consumer had stopped 
paying this would have put them in a better position.
Our investigator didn’t think Creation had placed Mr T in a worse position by accepting the 
payment plan.
Because Mr T didn’t agree with our investigator, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold this complaint. And therefore, I don’t think 
Creation needs to do anything more.
As above, Mr T contacted Creation in April 2018, to explain he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, and as such was struggling to repay what he owed to it. As Mr T had explained 
he was struggling to pay, I would expect Creation to act in line with the rules, guidance and 
standard industry practice for dealing customers in financial difficulties such as this. So, I’ve 
considered these, when coming to my decision.
The rules, which can be found in The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) explain that a 
firm;

must treat customers in default or arrears with forbearance and due consideration;

is likely to be in contravention of CONC and Principle 6 of the Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN) if it refuses to “allow for alternative, affordable payment amount 
to repay the debt in full, where is customer is in default or arrears difficulties and the 
customer makes a reasonable proposal for repaying the debt”
Because the sourcebook says a firm must treat customer with forbearance and due 
consideration, I’ve considered whether Creation treated Mr T this way. And, based on the 
information I’ve seen – which includes contact notes between Mr T and Creation, as well as 
details of Mr T’s account, I’m satisfied it did.
I say this because when Mr T explained he was in financial difficulties, Creation put his 
account on hold straight away, to allow him time to work on the payment plan he was looking 
into. This is what I would have expected Creation to do – it was looking to support Mr T in 
making payments to his debt in a sustainable way at that time.
Creation continued to place the account on hold, until it received Mr T’s financial statement 
and proof of income. And, when it did receive this information, I’m aware Creation did 
discuss the evidence provided with Mr T, to check that the proposed payment of £50 a 
month would be a fair figure to agree on. And it did agree to that plan – allowing for an 
alternative, affordable and reasonable proposal for repaying the debt to be put in place.
Given that Creation agreed to provide Mr T with time to work on a plan, that it checked the 
viability of the plan when provided with it, and agreed for this to go ahead to help alleviate 
some of Mr T’s financial difficulties, I do think Creation gave consideration and forbearance 
to Mr T when he needed it. 
It’s my understanding that Creation has continued to review payment plans with Mr T, 
following the end of the first payment plan completed. And, given the amount of the credit Mr 
T had, and that Mr T would be able to pay this off within a reasonable timeframe based on 
the payment plan agreed, I think it was fair for it to do so. It enabled Mr T to pay the amount 
he ultimately owed but taking into account his circumstances at the time.
Given this, I think Creation acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it handled Mr T’s 
financial difficulties. And so, I don’t think it did anything wrong.
I understand Mr T feels Creation didn’t handle the matter reasonably. And that instead of 
agreeing to the payment plan, with regular reviews, it should also have placed a default on 
his account in 2018.
I’ve thought carefully about what Mr T has said here. But I don’t think Creation acted unfairly 
in the way it handled Mr T’s circumstances – including its decision not to apply a default to 
the account.
The ICO principles do note that a default may be recorded when an account is three months 
in arrears, and normally by the time the account is in six months of arrears. But I do agree 
with our investigator, that there are exceptions to this under the ICO principles – and one of 
these is that;
“If an arrangement is agreed (see Principle 3 above), a default would not normally be 
registered unless the terms of that arrangement are broken.”
In this case, Mr T was looking, and then did, come to an arrangement with Creation. And 
whilst Mr T has referred to breaking his original credit agreement, the above principles are in 
relation to the arrangement he made on entering financial difficulties. And this arrangement – 
which was to pay £50 a month – was not broken. Given this wasn’t broken, Creation has 
acted in line with the exception detailed in the principles.
Mr T has said that he would have been in a better position, if Creation had chosen to default 
his account. He said the matter would have fallen off his credit file by 2024 if the default had 
been registered. But under the plan the account would not be satisfied and closed until 2028. 
I do appreciate Mr T’s position here. But I don’t think there is enough evidence to show that 
by failing to default Mr T in 2018, and instead agreeing to a payment arrangement, Creation 
was acting in a way which would put Mr T in a worse position. I can’t see Creation had any 
evidence to suggest Mr T’s circumstances were such that he would not be able to repay the 
debt at all, or that he wouldn’t be able to do so in a reasonable time, particularly given the 
payment arrangement would be reviewed in six months. And if Mr T had a change in 
circumstances, he may have still been able to settle the debt earlier than the six years it 
would take for a default to be removed from the credit file.
Since referring this case for a final decision, Mr T has said that Creation has passed some 
incorrect information onto the credit reference agencies on this account. He has said this is 
in relation to February 2021. If Mr T remains unhappy with this, he will need to raise this with 
Creation in the first instance, given this is a new issue to the complaint raised here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. So, I don’t require 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2629018
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”) rejected a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 when the wrong goods were 
delivered.
  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr A visited a furniture retail shop and ordered a sofa, dining table and 
six dining chairs. He paid for the goods via a fixed sum loan agreement with CCF.
Mr A says that although the correct sofa and dining table were delivered, the dining chairs 
he received weren’t the ones he ordered. The retailer accepted that the wrong chairs were 
delivered initially, but said the correct chairs were subsequently received by Mr A in 
January 2019. Mr A says he received the wrong set of dining chairs on three occasions 
and, that on the last occasion in January 2019, the retailer had refused to collect and 
replace them.
Mr A says that because of the ongoing dispute, he told both the retailer and CCF that he 
would cancel the direct debit for the payments due under the agreement, from June 
2019. He also made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 to CCF 
on the grounds there had been a breach of contract.
CCF didn’t allow Mr A’s claim as it said the retailer had confirmed the correct chairs had 
been delivered. This was evidenced by Mr A signing the delivery note once one of the 
chairs had been unpacked and checked by A that it was the correct model.
Mr A was unhappy at CCF’s decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr A’s complaint should be upheld. He said that he was satisfied 
that it was more likely than not that Mr A had received the wrong chairs and a breach of 
contract had occurred.
Our investigator said that, looking at the paperwork, it wasn’t possible to say the contract 
hadn’t been breached as the order invoice only gave the name of the chairs ordered but 
no other details such as their colour. The financial agreement also only stated “chairs”. 
and no other details about what had been ordered by Mr A. 
The investigator said that he accepted Mr A’s evidence that, although he’d signed the 
delivery note, this had only been to confirm the chairs had arrived and not that they were 
the ones he had ordered in July 2018. Mr A had explained that he’d been in a hurry due 
to work pressures and hadn’t properly checked the contents of the boxes until later. As 
soon as Mr A had realised the chairs were the wrong colour, he had contacted the 
retailer.
Mr A had then held on to the chairs unopened for a period of 18 months, and our 
investigator said he didn’t think that if they were the ones Mr A had ordered that he would 
have kept them packaged and unused. CCF also hadn’t been able to provide any 
evidence that the chairs ordered by Mr A were the ones that had been delivered
Our investigator said that, unfortunately, the retailer had now ceased trading so the chairs 
couldn’t be replaced with those Mr A had originally ordered. He said it would be fair for the 
chairs to be collected, and any payments made by Mr A towards them to be reimbursed 
with interest. And, as the loan had been for multiple items, the cost of the chairs needed 
to be removed, along with any applied interest and the loan balance adjusted accordingly.
As Mr A had stopped making payments under the credit agreement CCF had served a 
default notice on him. This was also recorded on his credit file. Our investigator said that 
the only reason the payments were stopped by Mr A was due to the dispute over the 
chairs. And he thought it would be fair for this adverse information to be removed, together 
with any charges that had been applied.
Mr A agreed with our investigator’s view, though he said he thought it would be fair that 
he be compensated for not being able to use the dining chairs since they were delivered 
in January 2019. Having them in the house had caused him distress and 
inconvenience.
CCF said that it agreed that the chairs should be collected and Mr A reimbursed due to 
the lack of evidence as to what chairs had been ordered by him. But it disagreed that the 
adverse information as to Mr A’s non-payment of the agreement should be removed from 
his credit file. It said it had a responsibility to record accurately how a consumer managed 
an account and, although Mr A had decided to stop paying, he had remained liable under 
the agreement.
As the parties weren’t able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
CCF hadn’t disputed that it wasn’t able to evidence that the correct chairs were delivered 
to Mr A, and so it couldn’t disagree that a breach of contract was more likely than not to 
have occurred. It agreed that the chairs should be collected, and the loan agreement 
adjusted for those goods to be removed from it. However, it strongly objected to removing 
the adverse information recorded in Mr A’s credit file about this agreement. It said it 
wasn’t agreed that Mr A could stop making payments and the credit agreement was for a 
number of items, not just the chairs.
So, the issue for me to consider was whether CCF should remove this adverse 
information from his credit file and whether it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay 
compensation to Mr A for being left with the wrong dining chairs and not being able to 
use them.
While I appreciated why Mr A stopped making payments because of the ongoing dispute 
about the chairs seemingly not being resolved, I couldn’t reasonably say he was within 
his rights to do so. I thought it was clear that when a credit agreement was entered into 
then the consumer had an obligation to make the payments as and when required under 
that agreement and, if payments were stopped without both party’s agreement, then 
there might be consequences. And here I also had to take into account that the 
agreement included items with which Mr A was satisfied.
Where a breach of contract arises then the remedy may be for the contract to be 
cancelled and the goods returned. In these circumstances any adverse information about 
the agreement would be removed from the consumer’s credit file. Here, cancellation of the 
agreement wasn’t possible as the credit agreement covered a number of items some of 
which Mr A was content with. So, that meant this credit agreement needed to be adjusted 
and the cost of the chairs, together with any interest applied for those items, be removed. I 
didn’t think the information recorded on Mr A’s credit file was an accurate reflection of the 
agreement as the payments towards the chairs couldn’t be separated out. In light of that, 
and also that there was a breach of the contract, I thought it would be fair in these 
circumstances for all the adverse information relating to this agreement to be removed. I 
thought it was reasonable to expect adverse information recorded on a credit file to be fair 
as well as being 
accurate.
Mr A had requested compensation for the impact of having the chairs in his home for so 
long. I accepted this would have caused him inconvenience, but I didn’t think I could 
reasonably say this was the fault of CCF. My remit was to look at the actions of CCF and 
how it had handled his claim under section 75. I wasn’t looking at the actions of the 
retailer and the distress and inconvenience its actions had caused Mr A.
Mr A raised his claim under section 75 with CCF in August 2019 and I’d seen that CCF 
responded to Mr A’s claim within a reasonable time period and after contacting the 
retailer. Although I appreciated CCF’s original decision was to decline Mr A’s claim under 
section 75 I didn’t think I could say that CCF wasn’t entitled to make the decision. It had 
investigated and considered the information provided by the retailer. CCF had since 
reviewed that decision in light of subsequent events.
I also appreciated Mr A was unhappy that CCF had made contact with him about the 
missing payments under the agreement, but he had stopped making these payments 
before he raised his complaint with CCF. And, as set out above, I didn’t think Mr A was 
entitled to take the action that he had. I think CCF’s actions were reasonable in the 
circumstances. It was entitled to ask for the payments to be made under the agreement.
For the reasons set above I wasn’t intending to ask CCF to pay Mr A compensation for 
having the chairs in his home for so long but I was intending to uphold the remaining part 
of Mr A’s complaint regarding the information recorded on his credit file about this 
agreement.
So, I intended to ask CCF to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at no cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that the cost of the chairs and applicable 
interest was removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file.
Mr A has agreed with my provisional view though he wished to stress that he had never 
opened any of the chair boxes when they were delivered to check their contents. CCF hasn’t 
asked me to look again at any parts of my decision but to clarify the cost of the chairs so that 
the credit agreement’s balance can be correctly adjusted.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has asked me to look again at my provisional decision, I haven’t changed 
my view. It’s accepted by both parties that there was a breach of contract and that the chairs 
should be collected from Mr A with the credit agreement being adjusted to reflect that.
I also think that, although Mr A stopped making payments, any adverse information should 
be removed by CCF from his credit record. This is because such information should be both 
fair and accurate.
So, for the reasons given above I’m partially upholding Mr A’s complaint. 
Putting things right
I’m asking CCF to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at a time that is convenient and at no 
cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that £597, being the cost of the chairs, 
together with the applicable interest is removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m partially upholding Mr A’s claim. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Arrange for the dining chairs to be collected at a time that is convenient and at no 
cost to Mr A.

Adjust the credit agreement so that £597, being the cost of the chairs, 
together with the applicable interest is removed.

If, after this adjustment, Mr A had paid more than the new balance outstanding 
under the agreement then he should be reimbursed that amount together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement.

Remove any adverse information regarding the agreement from Mr A’s credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2644586
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms B complains about the way that that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has dealt with 
her credit agreement and about the fees that it has applied to her account.
What happened
Ms B entered into a credit agreement for a store card with Creation Consumer Finance in 
November 2017. She used that store card to buy a number of items on “buy now – pay later” 
terms. She used the card in April 2019 to buy another item which she expected to be on “buy 
now – pay later” terms but the purchase was set up so that Creation Consumer Finance 
would start collecting monthly payments for that item. 
She contacted Creation Consumer Finance and was advised to raise the issue with the 
retailer. She cancelled her direct debit to Creation Consumer Finance for the monthly 
payments and started making manual payments instead. But she didn’t make the payment 
that was due by the beginning of June 2019 so her account went into arrears. She made 
payments each month but they were for less than the required amount and didn’t clear the 
arrears on her account so fees were applied to her account and her arrears increased. 
She stopped making payments to Creation Consumer Finance after her November 2019 
payment and complained to it. It said that not all of the items had been bought on “buy now – 
pay later” terms and that Ms B hadn’t made the required payments so interest and charges 
had been applied correctly.
Ms B wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He concluded that he didn’t think that 
Creation Consumer Finance had been unfair or unreasonable in relation to the items not 
being on “buy now – pay later” terms or that it had unfairly applied charges to her account. 
And he said that it had stopped her ability to pay off items individually because of the arrears 
that were on the account – which he didn’t think was unreasonable.
Ms B hasn’t accepted our investigator’s recommendations so her complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. Ms B says that the fees were unnecessarily applied (and the 
same fee was applied twice in the same month), Creation Consumer Finance stopped her 
paying off items individually and it and the retailer didn’t listen to her.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

it’s clear that Ms B wanted to pay for the item that she bought in April 2019 on “buy 
now - pay later” terms and as soon as she became aware that it hadn’t been set up 
on that basis she contacted Creation Consumer Finance; 

it must have been frustrating for her that the purchase hadn’t been set up on “buy 
now - pay later” terms but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show 
Ms B had correctly followed the steps necessary for it to be set up on that basis when 
she bought the item;

Ms B also contacted the retailer and I can understand the frustration she felt when 
the retailer and Creation Consumer Finance were each telling her to contact the 
other – but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation 
Consumer Finance acted incorrectly when dealing with that purchase or that it didn’t 
listen to her;

Ms B then cancelled her direct debit and started making manual payments - but she 
didn’t make the payment that was due by the beginning of June 2019 so her account 
went into arrears;

she made payments each month from then until November 2019 (as described in 
more detail by the investigator) but they were for less than the required amount and 
didn’t clear the arrears on her account so fees were applied to her account and her 
arrears increased;

Ms B stopped making payments to Creation Consumer Finance after her November 
2019 payment so the arrears on her account continued to increase and, by the time 
of her account statement in January 2021, were £996.74 (including fees);

I consider that the fees have been applied by Creation Consumer Finance in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account because Ms B hadn’t made 
the minimum required payment by the due date each month and hadn’t cleared the 
arrears on her account;

I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that those charges have 
been applied incorrectly or that it was unfair or unreasonable in these circumstances 
for Creation Consumer Finance to apply those charges;

Creation Consumer Finance says that it had stopped Ms B’s ability to pay off items 
individually because of the arrears that were on the account – and that it wanted her 
to contact it about her arrears – I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to 
show that it acted incorrectly when it did so;

I sympathise with Ms B for the difficulties that she’s experienced but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance 
has acted incorrectly in the way that it’s dealt with her account; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to waive or reduce the fees that it’s applied to Ms B’s account or the arrears 
on her account, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in response 
to her complaint.
I suggest that Ms B contacts Creation Consumer Finance and tries to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement for the amount that she owes to it. If she doesn’t do so, I consider it 
to be likely that it will take further action to recover that amount from her (to the extent that 
it’s legally entitled to do so). If she’s experiencing any financial difficulties, it’s required to 
respond to those difficulties positively and sympathetically.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Ms B’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2707586
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd refused the claim she brought under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She wants to reject goods she believes 
aren’t of satisfactory quality. And to receive a refund.
What happened
Mrs O tells us that in August 2018 she ordered a three-piece suite from a retailer I’ll call “H”. 
This was delivered in November 2018. Mrs O states that around January 2019 she noticed 
that a large crease had appeared on the sofa and complained to H and subsequently to 
Creation. She states that there have been three inspections carried out on the furniture. And 
that the latest of these - which she arranged to have carried out by an independent expert - 
concluded there was a manufacturing fault with all three items.
Creation told us that it had considered three independent reports. Two of which had 
concluded there were no faults. It considered that there was insufficient information to accept 
Mrs O’s Section 75 claim.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation was entitled to take the view that two out of three of the inspections had concluded 
there were no faults with the furniture. And that there was insufficient information to show 
there’d been a breach of contract by H.
Mrs O wasn’t happy with this outcome. And asked for an ombudsman to make the final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m sorry that Mrs O isn’t satisfied with the quality of the furniture with which she was 
supplied. And I accept that she’d be disappointed if she felt such an expensive item didn’t 
meet her expectations.
I think it’s important to set out my role here.  I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that 
Mrs O might have under Section 75. Rather, I’m required to decide what, if anything, 
Creation should do to resolve this complaint. When determining what’s fair and reasonable, 
I’m required to take into account (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law 
includes Section 75. And the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Mrs O’s complaint is that the three-piece suite she purchased isn’t of satisfactory quality. 
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods don’t conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didn’t do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless it’s shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Mrs O’s initial complaint arose within six months of the supply of the goods. And it’s not in 
dispute that there have now been three inspections by independent experts. 
The first report was carried out by a business I’ll refer to as “HS” in February 2019.  This was 
commissioned by the retailer, H.  This report concluded that there were no manufacturing 
faults with the furniture. 
Mrs O then obtained a report from a business I’ll call “E”. An inspection in April 2019 also 
concluded that there were no faults.
Finally, Mrs O obtained a further report in June 2019 from a business I’ll call “FR”. This 
report concluded there were manufacturing faults with the sofa and both chairs.
Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
In plain terms, there’s a difference of opinion between experts. But I don’t think it’s a 
question of accepting the majority opinion. The various businesses that have prepared these 
reports are recognised within the industry as experts. And I don’t think I’m in a position to 
say that one view should be relied upon to the exclusion of the others.
Nor do I think that Creation should be expected to make such a distinction. As the provider 
of credit, its expertise is not in the finer points of the items it finances. It’s entitled to rely on 
experts who have such knowledge. And where those experts disagree – and in the absence 
of other information to show that the view of a particular expert should be preferred – it’s fair 
and reasonable for it to decide the information is inconclusive. And that there’s insufficient 
information to establish it has any liability under Section 75. Accordingly, I can’t reasonably 
say that Creation has done anything wrong. Accordingly, I’m not upholding this complaint.
I understand that Mrs O will be disappointed with this outcome. But I want to emphasise that 
my decision is based only upon my determining Creation has dealt with the complaint fairly. 
I’m not deciding if the items supplied were or were not of satisfactory quality. Or which expert 
is correct. 
Nor does my decision prevent Mrs O taking such action as may be available to her against 
H. The reason I’ve considered her complaint solely against Creation, is that I’m only able to 
look at complaints against businesses in relation to certain regulated financial activities. And 
furniture retailing is not such an activity. So I can’t make any decision in respect of H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2709637
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) charged her for speakers 
and a laptop computer that she didn’t receive. She brings this complaint under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She also complains about the way she was treated by a 
member of staff at a retailer.
What happened
In May 2018, Mrs S opened a credit account with Creation with a view to buying goods from 
a specific retailer I’ll call “R”. It appears she made an initial purchase of goods costing 
£1,658.95.
In June 2019 further purchases from R were charged to Mrs S’s account. In July 2019 a 
laptop computer purchased online from R was also charged to her account. Mrs S 
complained to Creation. She said she hadn’t ordered speakers which formed part of the 
June purchase, or the laptop computer. 
R was unable to confirm the speakers had left its store. So Creation removed this item from 
Mrs S’s account. However, it said the computer had been delivered to Mrs S’s address and 
signed for there. So it didn’t accept her complaint in relation to the computer, and said she 
would have to raise this with the person who seemed to have signed for it.
Mrs S also complained that her account had been blocked, and had been updated without 
her consent. Creation said the credit limit on the account had been reduced from the original 
£3,500 to £1,600 after the purchase of the computer. It was now blocked because it was in 
arrears. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this response and complained to us. She also complained about 
the way she was treated by a member of R’s staff.
Our investigator said we couldn’t hold Creation responsible for the behaviour of R’s staff as 
this didn’t come within our jurisdiction. She said Creation had already removed the speakers 
from her account.
However, evidence had been provided that the computer was signed for at her address by a 
person named “Rafar”. Mrs S had acknowledged that a person called “Rafal” lived at the 
address, although he denied signing for the computer.
On the balance of probabilities, the investigator thought the difference in spelling was likely 
to have been a mistake by the delivery driver in recording the name of the person who 
signed for the computer. So she couldn’t say Creation had acted unfairly in not removing the 
computer from Mrs S’s account.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that:

her credit limit on the account had always been £1,600; and

she didn’t order the computer.
Creation confirmed to the investigator that Mrs S’s credit limit was £3,500 when she opened 
the account, and when the computer was ordered. And she remained satisfied that the 
computer was signed for by someone at her address who on the balance of probabilities was 
“Rafal”.
Mrs S asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said, in summary, 
that:

she didn’t order or receive the computer;

her account had been hacked, and the password on the account changed by 
someone else;

the limit on her account was only ever £1,600; 

Creation had failed to investigate what had happened; and

she should be compensated for the stress Creation had put her under.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that I have come to the same view as the investigator, and for broadly 
the same reasons. I find on the balance of probabilities that the computer was delivered to 
Mrs S’s address and signed for there by someone present on the premises whose name the 
delivery driver recorded as “Rafar”.
Although Mrs S suggests her account was hacked, I’ve seen no evidence to support this. 
While I’ve seen confirmation that the password on the account was changed this doesn’t say 
who made the change.
I accept Creation’s evidence that the opening credit limit on the account was £3,500, and 
this remained the credit limit at the time the computer was ordered. For one thing, the 
opening purchase cost £1,658.95, and this wouldn’t have been possible if the credit limit had 
been only £1,600.
So all in all, I think Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in considering Mrs S’s 
complaint, and in not removing the computer purchase from her account.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint, and make no order against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2725863
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) prevented him from 
settling a loan early by failing to provide a suitable communication channel. And this led to 
him incurring unnecessary costs. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I’ve summarised events.

Mr C took a 36-month loan with Creation. This included a 12-month holiday period 
which meant he could settle the loan without interest if he repaid it by 15 June 2020.

Mr C says he tried to contact Creation on a number of occasions prior to this date by 
phone but was unable to speak to anyone as it was running a reduced service. He 
said a pre-recorded message told him to complete the transaction online, but he said 
he didn’t have an online account – and when trying to set one up he’d been unable to 
register. He said he also contacted Creation by email. 

Creation said it had written to Mr C with reminders of this offer previously and given 
him enough notification. And although Mr C didn’t receive these letters, this had been 
his own mistake as he’d not told Creation of his updated address. So, it said it 
wouldn’t allow him to use the offer as he’d repaid too late.

Mr C brought the complaint to our service and the investigator upheld the complaint. 
She was satisfied Mr C had the funds to settle the loan and had tried to do this by 
phone prior to the deadline – supported by his memory of its specific messaging from 
the time about high call volumes. And as he’d been trying to reach Creation and the 
call volumes prevented this from happening, she said it should allow him to settle the 
loan in line with the special offer.

Creation disagreed, saying there was no evidence he’d tried to contact it prior to an 
email of 18 June 2020 querying how to settle the loan online. And it said there was 
no “problem” with the phone lines, simply that the hold times were longer due to 
unprecedented call volumes.

The investigator looked again but didn’t change her mind. She said Mr C’s testimony 
and recall of events persuaded her that he had called in time, and this hadn’t been 
possible. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsman’s final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why.

There’s no dispute Mr C was aware of the significance of repaying his loan prior to 15 
June 2020 ahead of time. So whether he received letters from Creation doesn’t 
impact anything in this case as I’m satisfied he knew of this.

What is in dispute is whether Mr C tried to contact Creation ahead of this deadline. 
Creation says there’s no evidence to support he did call it. But I’ve also thought 
carefully about its own description of its phonelines across this time. It’s said while 
there wasn’t a “problem”, the volumes were “unprecedented” and led to waiting times 
longer than it “…would have wanted.” This suggests to me that it’s plausible Mr C 
had called but been unable to get through.

I’m mindful here that Mr C’s attempts to contact Creation were at a time shortly after 
a national lockdown was imposed and many businesses experienced severe 
problems with maintaining their usual phone capabilities for consumers. 

I’ve also thought about what Mr C has said and I think his account of events is 
plausible and persuasive. I say this as Mr C has been consistent in what happened 
and referred to Creation’s automated messages directing him to go online to make 
the payment. This ties in with the email Creation has acknowledged where he asked 
about this online payment method shortly after the deadline. 

For all of these reasons, I’m satisfied it’s most likely Mr C had been calling Creation 
prior to this deadline to make payment. And he was prevented from doing so in this 
case as a result of this high volumes. So, in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint, I think Creation needs to allow Mr C to settle his loan as if he had made 
the payment on 15 June 2020.  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

accept Mr C’s payment to settle the loan as if this had been paid on or before 15 
June 2020 (if it hasn’t done so already); 

upon payment, it should return any interest or subsequent payments made by Mr C 
with 8% interest from the date paid (if there are any); and

amend any credit reference agencies records to reflect the loan being settled on 15 
June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2734922
--------------------------

The complaint
 Ms J complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) supplied her with a car which 
she believes wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2019, Ms J acquired a used car which she financed through a 48 month hire 
purchase agreement with Creation. The cash price of the car was over £18,900, it had 
travelled around 18,300 miles and it was approximately three years old.  
Within a few of weeks, Ms J said she noticed an unpleasant egg like smell coming from the 
car, it was shuddering/juddering when pulling away and the washers weren’t working. In 
December 2019, she reported the issues to the dealership. 
They arranged for the car to be inspected by a third party garage in January 2020. A fault 
was found with the nox sensors. It was reset alongside the gearbox values, they also 
adjusted the engine cover as it was vibrating. They advised the washers needed to be 
looked at in more detail and if the fault came back with the nox sensors, it would have to be 
looked at again by the car manufacturer as they didn’t have the diagnostic tools to replace 
them. Despite an extensive road test, the garage found no other faults with the car. Although 
Ms J was initially sent an invoice for the labour, the dealership agreed to cover the cost as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Despite the repair, Ms J reported she was still having issues with the car including the 
juddering. She complained to Creation and requested to reject the car. 
In the meantime, as there was still issues including the nox sensor, in February and March 
2020, the car was taken to the car manufacturer franchised dealership to see if they could 
rectify them. During these visits, the nox sensor was replaced as part of a safety recall. The 
engine was also inspected as Ms J reported it wasn’t running correctly when the fan was on 
a certain speed level and the engine management lights were coming on and the car was 
going into limp mode. The car was taken on an extended road test however no faults could 
be found with the car. 
In answering her complaint, Creation said repairs had been carried out under warranty and 
no other faults were found with the car. They were satisfied the repairs had fixed the issues 
at no cost to Ms J. They said if faults were still present, the onus was on her to prove it and 
they will review the matter. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They believed the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied and both the dealership and Creation had been given the opportunity 
to fix the issue however the fault remained with the juddering. As repairs had already been 
attempted, they believed it was fair for Ms J to reject the car. 
Creation disagreed as they thought the rejection of the car was excessive. They said the car 
had been in Ms J’s possession for over five months before the issues came to light and it 
had been inspected twice and no faults were identified.  They confirmed they were in receipt 
of the videos of the car as provided by Ms J but they wished for an independent inspection to 
establish if there was a fault and how this could be rectified. Ms J said she wasn’t happy to 
do so as she had noticed the intermittent issue within a few weeks and reported the issues in 
December 2019 which was a few months of acquiring the car. As Creation had more than 
their one opportunity to fix it, she wanted to reject it. 
Ms J said she’s worried about driving the car as she doesn’t believe it’s safe to do so and it 
could be putting her life and those of her children at risk. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold Ms J’s complaint. I’ll explain why. 
Ms J acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Creation is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term into the contract that the quality of the
goods is satisfactory. To be considered “satisfactory”, the goods would need to meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory – taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the car’s history.
In this case, Creation supplied Ms J with a used car that was approximately three years old 
and had travelled over 18,300 miles. For used cars, it’s reasonable to expect parts may 
already have suffered wear and tear when compared to a new car or one that is less 
travelled.
I’ve considered the evidence provided by Creation which included job cards and testimony 
from the dealership. I’ve also considered what Ms J has said, her videos and job cards. 
Having done so, on balance I believe there is a fault with the car. I say this because having 
watched the videos, they show the car to be juddering while stationary and also while 
driving. These videos are dated July and November 2020 which is after the car was looked 
at by the garages. From the outset, Ms J said this is an intermittent issue which may explain 
why it couldn’t be replicated when the car was inspected by the garages.
Ms J’s version of events throughout the complaint have been consistent and I find this to be 
persuasive. She said she noticed the issue with the juddering within a few weeks but it was 
intermittent so I can understand why she may not have reported it immediately. She reported 
the issues in December 2019 and by the time it was looked at in January 2020, it had 
travelled less than 2,500 miles from being supplied. Given how soon after supply she started 
to experience the issue and the low mileage covered, on balance I believe this fault was 
present and/or developing at the time car was supplied to her. Without a further inspection, 
it’s difficult to say what is exactly wrong with the car but it would appear there is an 
underlying intermittent fault (possibly linked to the engine) and it’s likely that has been there 
from when she acquired it. 
I accept cars will display varying degrees of smoothness, noise and vibrations while being 
used and this may be impacted by different factors. While I recognise some level of 
juddering may be expected, there will be occasions where the extent is significant and 
beyond what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. Based on the videos, I 
believe the juddering of Ms J’s car is beyond what I believe a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. So I can understand why it’s negatively impacting on the 
enjoyment, comfort and sense of safety in the car for her and her children.
Alongside the fault with the juddering, I’m aware Ms J also had issues with the nox sensors 
and washers but from my understanding these have now been fixed following repairs so I 
won’t go into further detail. 
Taking everything into account, I don’t believe Ms J’s car was of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied due to the faults with the juddering meaning there was a breach of contract. 
I note Creation’s request for an independent inspection to be carried out. However given 
what has happened since the issue was reported and the fact it’s been inspected by at least 
two separate garages without the juddering fault being fixed, I think it’s fair for Creation to 
allow Ms J to reject the car.
Creation should end the agreement and arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Ms 
J. While I accept the car wasn’t performing as it should have, a recent reading of the 
odometer shows the car has travelled over 25,000 miles so it’s evident Ms J has had use of 
it albeit the fault persists and is ongoing even now. Therefore it’s fair she should pay to 
reflect that so I won’t be asking Creation to fully refund the monthly payments. However I will 
ask them to refund 10% of the monthly payments from December 2019 (when the issues 
were first reported) onwards to reflect the loss of enjoyment and the general impact of the 
ongoing nature of the fault. Creation should also refund the £1,000. Ms J said as a result of 
the fault with the juddering she had to pay £99 (including VAT) for a diagnostic test to be 
carried out by the car manufacturer franchised dealer. She wouldn’t have needed to do so 
had the fault not been present so I think Creation should refund this amount.
I’m sorry to hear the car wasn’t performing as expected and due to the faults including the 
juddering, it meant Ms J had to return the car to the dealership and a third party garage on at 
least three occasions. I also acknowledge the level of trouble and upset it has caused her so 
for that reason I believe Creation should also pay £100 compensation.  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided to uphold Ms J’s complaint.
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

End the agreement, with nothing further due from Ms J;

Collect the car at no cost to Ms J;

Refund the £1,000 deposit*;

Refund 10% of the monthly payments from December 2019 until the date of 
settlement*;

Refund the cost of the diagnostic test (£99)*;

Remove any adverse information about this hire purchase agreement from Ms J’s 
credit file;

Pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms J.
* Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the 
above refunds calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of 
my award it should provide Ms J with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she 
can reclaim that amount if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2739195
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty chair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Mr W complained to the merchant, which I will call S, within 30 days of delivery of the chair 
in September 2018. He told S he wished to reject it. It arranged for the chair to be inspected 
and concluded it wasn’t faulty. I have noted that this was not an independent inspection. The 
onus was on S to demonstrate the chair was of an acceptable quality and I don’t believe 
having a technician say so is sufficient. 
However, a second inspection took place in November 2019 and this concluded that the 
chair was faulty and required remedial work. Mr W has told us that he hadn’t used the chair 
in the intervening period. The technician concluded that “the back cushion has flattened. It 
needs more fibre adding to fill out the back cushion…”
It seems logical to me that if the cushion contained insufficient padding a little over a year 
after purchase then it also lacked that padding at the outset and therefore it was faulty. Mr W 
asked that he be allowed to reject it within 30 days and I am satisfied that it was faulty so he 
was within his rights to reject the chair. In the circumstances S does not have the right to 
effect one repair. 
Our investigator has also noted that the chair which was part of a set was manufactured 
differently to the sofa and Mr W had the right under consumer law to expect them to be the 
same unless he was told otherwise. Mr W said the chair wasn’t on display and he tried the 
sofa which has been satisfactory. He believed the chair would of a similar construction, 
however the back the sofa was foam and the chair was padded. 
I appreciate Creation has said there is no supporting evidence to confirm Mr W’s version of 
events. I agree, but I have seen the invoice for the sofa and it provide little in the way of 
detail about the construction and no evidence has been forthcoming about how the furniture 
was advertised. It has said that it may be appropriate for two different materials to be used 
and that may be the case, but the issue is whether that was made clear to Mr W. I am 
satisfied that he was unaware of the difference and so I consider this gives further grounds 
for rejection.
I have seen material from S which suggests, amongst other things that Mr W should make 
some contribution towards the use of the chair. However, he identified it as faulty within a 
week or so and it was open to S to take the chair back at that point. It chose not to and I do 
not consider that Mr W should be required to make any contribution.
Putting things right
 Mr W should be allowed to reject the chair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to: 

End the finance agreement with nothing for Mr W to pay.

Refund any payment made by Mr W from the start of the agreement to termination 
plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until the date it is 
refunded.

Arrange for the collection of the sofa at no cost to Mr W.

Arrange to have details of the agreement removed from Mr W’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2762814
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In June 2020 Mr E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. At the point of supply the car was 4 years old and had covered around 35,700 
miles.
Within the first two weeks of getting the car Mr E experienced a problem with the air 
conditioning. Mr E contacted the supplying dealer to raise his concerns. He says he was 
advised to take the car for a diagnostic at any garage so long as it was VAT registered.
Mr E took the car for a diagnostic at a main dealer. It found faults with the radiator and air 
conditioning system and told Mr E that repairs were required which would cost around 
£1126.00.
Mr E contacted the supplying dealer and advised them of the faults and the cost of repairs. 
He asked the dealer to repair the car or he would reject it due to the faults.
The supplying dealer refused to repair the car because of the cost. So, Mr E complained to 
Creation. 
In response, Creation said it didn’t think the fault was present at the point of supply because 
Mr E had driven the car for 3 weeks between getting the car ad having the diagnostic report 
carried out. It declined his request to reject the car.
Mr E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She didn’t think the car was of satisfactory quality and 
said that because Mr E had already given the supplying dealer the chance to repair the car, 
he should now be allowed to reject it. 
Mr E didn’t agree with the level of compensation the investigator recommended. He said 
he’d spent a lot of time taking the car to various garages and on the phone trying to resolve 
things with Creation. He also said he’d been contacted by debt collectors including at 
evenings and weekends which had negatively impacted on his wellbeing. Mr E said that 
because he hadn’t been able to use the car, it had been occupying a private parking space 
at his property, and he’d had to incur the costs of taxis to get around.
Creation didn’t agree either. It said it thought it should be allowed to inspect the car before 
agreeing to a rejection. It said that Mr E hadn’t given the supplying dealer the opportunity to 
repair the car and that the supplying dealer had agreed to allow Mr E to reject the car in 
August 2020, but Mr E had requested the return of his deposit before he was prepared to 
return the car.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Creation supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement there’s an implied tern 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there’s a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to 
the business to put things right. After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer to show that the car isn’t of satisfactory quality.
I’ve looked at the diagnostic report dated 9 July 2020. This says the air conditioning is 
inoperative due to the damage to the front of the condenser. It also says the radiator has 
been damaged and needs replacement to ensure that there won’t be any coolant leaks.
Having considered the report, I’m satisfied that there’s a fault with the car. Although the 
report doesn’t say that the fault was present at the point of supply, the presumption applies 
here, and I haven’t seen any evidence from Creation to rebut it. 
I’ve taken into account Creation’s belief that the fault couldn’t have been present at the point 
of supply because the car had covered around 200 miles in the 3 weeks since Mr E acquired 
it. Creation has said it doesn’t think a car could cover this mileage with a coolant leak. 
However, I disagree. The report doesn’t say that there is a coolant leak. It recommends 
replacement of the radiator to prevent a coolant leak.  
Taking the nature of the fault into account and the very short time between the point of 
supply and the diagnostic report, I’m satisfied that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. 
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
Creation has said that Mr E didn’t allow the supplying dealer this opportunity, but I disagree. 
Mr E obtained an estimate for repairs, but the supplying dealer refused to repair the car or 
arrange repairs. Because of this, I don’t think it’s fair to expect Mr E to give the supplying 
dealer another chance to repair the car. Mr E should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
I can see that the issues which Mr E has experienced have impacted on him. He’s had to 
take the car to the garage on more than one occasions, and he’s spent time trying to resolve 
his complaint with Creation. He’s explained that he hasn’t been able to use the car since July 
2020 because of the supplying dealer’s refusal to arrange repairs or allow him to reject the 
car. This has meant that he’s incurred additional travel expenses. I think its fair to ask 
creation to pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E.
I’m aware that Mr E stopped paying his monthly payments because he didn’t want to pay for 
a faulty car. This has led to him receiving arrears letters and being contacted by a debt 
collection agent. I understand how frustrating and upsetting this has been for Mr E. However, 
although Mr E complained to Creation about the fault with the car, he was still under an 
obligation to meet the terms of the agreement. Because of this, I’m unable to say that 
Creation shouldn’t have pursued the missed payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr E
Refund the deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund all of the monthly payments made by Mr E plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mr E’s credit file
Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2771908
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited will not compensate him for 
defective goods he bought with a loan that it provided. 
What happened
In May 2016 Mr C obtained a loan from Creation to assist in the purchase of a sofa set from 
a retailer, which I’ll call S.
In May 2018 Mr C contacted S to say that one of the sofas was sagging on one side. 
Creation arranged an inspection. The inspection report concluded that the problem Mr C had 
reported was consistent with use over time. That is, there was no manufacturing defect. It 
said too that an internal inspection showed no broken spring or frame issues. S declined Mr 
C’s claim for compensation. 
Mr C also referred the matter to Creation. It said that it could not assist because the sofa had 
been delivered to a relative of Mr C and that he was not therefore its owner. It said it 
therefore had no liability under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He did 
not agree with Creation’s arguments about whether section 75 could apply to this case. He 
was not persuaded however that the sofa had been faulty. The inspection report had 
concluded that any damage was the result of wear and tear, rather than a manufacturing 
fault. 
Mr C arranged a further and repairs costing in excess of £400. The repairers noted that the 
sofa’s frame was damaged and that additional screws had been fitted; it was not clear 
however whether that had been done when the sofa was made or at some later date.
The investigator reviewed the case in light of this further information but was not persuaded 
that he should change his opinion. There was no persuasive evidence to show when the 
fault developed. Mr C did not accept the investigator’s view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ll deal first with Creation’s submissions about section 75. One effect of section 75 of The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, where an individual buys goods from a supplier using 
credit provided under pre-existing arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that 
individual can bring a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in 
the same way he could against the supplier. The supplier here was S and Creation was the 
lender. 
Creation says however that section 75 cannot apply because Mr C was not the buyer of the 
goods. It says that because the sofa set was not delivered to and was not kept at Mr C’s 
address; he was not its owner. That is, in my view, a mistaken interpretation. The necessary 
condition as between Mr C and S is that he has a claim for breach of contract against S. For 
that to apply, he must have a contract with S. That is not something however that can be 
determined merely by the location of the sofa set or by its ownership. It depends on Mr C’s 
dealings with S. I have however seen nothing to suggest that S dealt with anyone other than 
Mr C when it sold the sofa set. It appears therefore that S’s contract was with Mr C.
I must therefore consider whether Mr C has a claim for breach of contract against S. His 
contract with S was to be read as including a term that the sofa set would be of satisfactory 
quality, which includes such matters as durability. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of 
the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
In this case, Mr C reported problems with one of the sofas about two years after it was 
supplied. An inspection report concluded that the problems were the result of wear and tear, 
not of any manufacturing defect. The report also referred to an internal inspection showing 
no broken springs or frame issues. That suggests that the inspection was reasonably 
thorough. 
A much more recent inspection, carried out nearly five years after supply, does show 
damage to the sofa’s frame. Photographs of the damage show a partial repair, although, as 
the investigator noted, it is not clear whether that was done later or to cover a manufacturing 
error. Given however that the first inspection concluded that there were no frame issues in 
May 2018, I am not persuaded that the sofa was defective at delivery. It is more likely that 
the faults identified were the result of wear and tear. 
It follows that the sofa was of satisfactory quality and that Creation is not liable to Mr C for 
the cost of repairs.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr C’s complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2784207
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd unfairly refused his claim brought 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974. He wants the refund of the cost of a 
sofa that he says wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he ordered a new sofa from a supplier I’ll call “HV”. He says this was paid 
for through a fixed sum loan agreement financed by Creation. Mr B states that when the sofa 
was delivered, he wasn’t happy with the quality of the item. So he rang Creation and told it 
that he was withdrawing from the finance agreement and wanted to reject the sofa. Mr B 
states that Creation turned down his complaint. And has recorded that the agreement is in 
arrears on his credit file. Mr B says he‘s now had a report prepared by a business I’ll refer to 
as “BFI”. And that this report says the sofa isn’t of satisfactory quality.
Creation told us that it had processed Mr B’s request to withdraw from the agreement. But 
had explained to him that this was separate to him rejecting the goods. And that was 
something that he needed to take up with HV. It said that HV had obtained an inspection 
report from a business I’ll refer to as “S”, which said that there was nothing wrong with the 
sofa. Creation said that the terms of the agreement meant that if he withdrew from it, Mr B 
had to repay any sum owed within 30 days. As it had paid HV for the goods it required Mr B 
to repay the full sum of £1,790. And as Mr B hadn’t done so, it had reported the arrears to 
credit reference agencies (CRA’s).
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 30 March 2021. I said that I didn’t 
intend to uphold the complaint. I found that Mr B had exercised his right to withdraw from the 
finance agreement within the statutory 14 day “cooling off” period. As such Creation wasn’t 
liable for the quality of the goods as there was no ongoing regulated finance agreement 
through which this liability could’ve arisen.
But because the money had already been paid by Creation to HV – and in accordance with 
the terms of the agreement – Mr B was required to refund this sum to Creation. I confirmed 
that the decision didn’t prevent Mr B from making a complaint or claim directly against HV.
Since then both parties have replied. Creation said that it accepted my provisional decision.  
Mr B spoke with our investigator and said he couldn’t understand why he had to repay 
Creation.
I thank both parties for their replies. As no new material information has been supplied, I 
don’t see any reason to alter my provisional view. This is largely repeated in my final 
decision which is set out below. But I’ll explain in detail why Mr B needs to repay Creation.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic facts behind this complaint are relatively straightforward. But that tells only part of 
the story. I understand that Mr B is upset that the sofa he ordered hasn’t met his 
expectations. And I empathise with his disappointment at the problems he’s faced in trying to 
reject it.
But this complaint is made against Creation. So I’m only looking at anything that Creation 
has done or for which it might be liable.
In some limited circumstances, where credit has been provided through a regulated finance 
agreement, Section 75 gives a consumer a “like claim” against the provider of finance as 
they would have against the supplier of the goods about which complaint is brought. It 
requires there to have been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
And that’s where things start to get quite complex. Because there’s two different types of 
agreement to consider here. There’s the agreement with HV to supply the sofa. And there’s 
the regulated finance agreement with Creation to pay for it. And withdrawing from the 
finance agreement isn’t the same as cancelling the order for the sofa. Or rejecting it.
The regulated finance agreement contained a provision that allowed Mr B to withdraw from it 
– provided he did so within 14 days of it being taken out. This is known as the “cooling off” 
period. And it doesn’t require any reason to be given. Only that Mr B should notify his 
intention to withdraw from it within the required period. And it’s not in dispute that Mr B 
exercised his right to withdraw within this time frame. Nor is it disputed that Creation 
accepted this request and carried it out correctly.
But as the goods had been supplied, Creation had already paid HV for them. And under the 
terms of the agreement, Mr B had undertaken to repay Creation that sum within 30 days, if 
he withdrew from the agreement.
It also meant that the matter of whether the sofa was of satisfactory quality was no longer a 
matter for Creation to consider. The effect of Mr B withdrawing from the agreement with 
Creation meant that section 75 wouldn’t apply. There’s no longer an ongoing regulated credit 
agreement in relation to the goods.
Any rights that Mr B may have if the goods are shown not to be of satisfactory quality still 
remain. But as Mr B no longer has a “like claim” against Creation, if he wishes to seek 
redress it will have to be against HV.
Creation didn’t turn down Mr B’s complaint on the basis that the regulated agreement no 
longer existed. Rather it said that it didn’t find there’d been any breach of contract by HV for 
which it (Creation) would be liable. 
As I’m only looking at any liability that Creation may have which arises from a regulated 
finance agreement – and as Mr B withdrew from that agreement - it’s no longer necessary 
for me to go on to make any findings relating to the quality of the goods supplied.
Mr B has also raised a complaint that Creation has reported that the account is in arrears to 
the CRA’s. And that this has affected his credit file.
When he entered the regulated finance agreement, Mr B undertook that if he withdrew from 
the agreement, he would repay the full amount of credit to Creation within 30 days. So whilst 
Mr B has been repaying what would’ve been the monthly contractual payments - if he hadn’t 
withdrawn from the agreement - these no longer apply. The full amount of credit provided 
became payable when he withdrew.
I can’t say that Creation is wrong in reporting the account to be in arrears as the full amount 
hasn’t been repaid.  But those reports should reflect that the sums being paid are reducing 
the outstanding balance.
In summary, my finding is that as Mr B withdrew from the regulated finance agreement 
there’s no basis on which Creation has any liability under section 75. So, whilst I’ve reached 
my view for different reasons, I don’t think it was unfair of Creation to decline to offer a 
refund of the price of the goods supplied. And it’s entitled to report arrears on the account to 
the CRA’s as that reflects an accurate statement of the account situation. Accordingly, I’m 
not upholding this complaint.
Finally, I would again emphasise that my decision does not prevent Mr B from pursuing any 
claim he may have against HV. And whilst it’s not my role to offer advice, he may wish to 
contact that business in order to seek a resolution regarding the issues of quality of the 
goods about which he’s concerned.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is I’m not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2795651
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (CCF) wrongly declined his 
application for credit. He would like CCF to apologise. And to accept it made the wrong 
decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here . Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-

I do appreciate it must be very frustrating for Mr J to have had a credit application 
unexpectedly declined and not to know the specific reason why. Unfortunately, as our 
investigator has already explained, CCF gave us its reasons for declining Mr J’s 
credit application in confidence. So, we can only summarise what we have been told 
which is that there was an issue with completing identification and verification 
checks.

CCF has given us details of Mr J’s application. And I can confirm from the details I 
have seen identification and verification was the issue. Based on that information I 
didn’t think it was unreasonable for CCF to reject Mr J’s credit application.

CCF can set its own criteria for lending including the checks it uses and can chose 
who it offers credit to. It’s not for us to tell CCF what checks to use or who to lend to 
– that’s a commercial decision for it to make. So, I can’t reasonably ask CCF to 
apologise and accept it should have agreed Mr J’s credit application as Mr J would 
like.

I appreciate Mr J’s concerns that he might experience the same problem with other 
credit lenders. That’s not necessarily the case since, as I have explained above, 
lenders can set their own criteria for agreeing credit or not.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2799011
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about the interest he’s been charged under an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr A purchased a fridge from a retailer and entered into a buy now pay later 
(BNPL) agreement with creation. The terms of the BNPL were that if the cash price was paid 
by 25 October 2019, no interest would be charged.
Mr A experienced a fault with the fridge in August 2019. The retailer replaced the fridge in 
October 2019 with a fridge which cost £500 less than the original fridge.
The retailer told Mr A that it wasn’t able to amend the finance agreement. Mr A says the 
retailer advised him not to make payment until this could be resolved.
The retailer refunded £500 to the agreement on 8 January 2020. However, by this time the 
BNPL period had ended and because Mr A hadn’t made payment, interest had accrued, and 
late payments had been recorded on his credit file.
Mr A complained to Creation. He was unhappy that he’d been charged interest because the 
fridge had broken in the BNPL period and it had taken the retailer several months to sort 
things out. In response, Creation said it had no knowledge of the fault with the fridge but that 
it had heard from the retailer in November 2019 when the retailer was trying to process a 
reduction in price but due to technical difficulties experienced by the retailer the credit hadn’t 
been applied to the agreement.
Creation offered two options to Mr A, either pay the cash price in full immediately and 
interest would be removed, or it would remove the interest added so far and Mr A could start 
paying monthly with interest being charged going forward.
Mr A wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants the interest 
waived and his credit file amended.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said he didn’t think Creation had done 
anything wrong because it was Mr A who hadn’t made his payments on time and interest 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr A didn’t agree. He said he’d been told by both the retailer and Creation not to make any 
payments until the credit to the account had been resolved. He didn’t think it was fair that 
he’d been charged interest.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the finance agreement. This says that interest will be charged on the balance 
at 24.9% per year if the cash price isn’t paid in full by the end of the BNPL period.
The date of the transaction was 25 April 2019 and the BNPL period expired on 25 October 
2019. I’ve looked at the history of the account and I can see that Mr A didn’t make any 
payments before the expiry of the BNPL period. Interest then became applicable to the 
account from the date of the transaction. Looking at the terms and conditions, I’m unable to 
say that Creation has done anything wrong by adding interest to the account.
Mr A is unhappy that his credit file has been affected. When a payment is missed, a lender is 
allowed to record this as a late payment on a credit file. Mr A missed more than one 
payment following the end of the BNPL period. I’m unable to say that Creation did anything 
wrong by recording late payments on Mr A’s credit file.
I understand that Mr A doesn’t think he’s been treated fairly. He’s said that reasons he didn’t 
make any payments on the account was because both the retailer and Creation advised him 
not to. I haven’t been able to listen to any of the calls between Mr A and the retailer so I can’t 
be certain of what was said. Based on what I’ve seen, the retailer tried to process the credit 
in October/November 2019 but for technical reasons the credit did t complete and it wasn’t 
until January 2020 that the agreement was credited. So, I agree with Mr A that it took the 
retailer several months to sort things out. But I haven’t seen anything to suggest that the 
retailer advised Mr A not to make payments.
Nor have I seen anything to suggest that Creation advised Mr A not to make payments. 
Creation has said that it didn’t know anything about the credit until October 2019 when it was 
contacted by the retailer. The BNPL was due to end the following month so I think it’s 
unlikely that Creation would have advised Mr A not to pay.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to say that Creation has acted unfairly. Interest 
has been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Late payments have 
been recorded because Mr A didn’t make payments when he should have done.
I can see that Creation offered Mr A a resolution to his complaint. Looking at what Creation 
offered, I think this was fair and reasonable. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2800290
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not refund the interest he’s paid on 
a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) finance agreement.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr H bought a television using a finance agreement with Creation. The 
agreement required him to pay £799 by 28 August 2020 (the “special offer date”) if he didn’t 
want to pay interest; or monthly payments after this date, which included an interest charge.
In August, Mr H contacted Creation to ask to extend the interest free period. Creation agreed 
to move the special offer date to 28 November 2020.
Mr H says he received an email from Creation which told him the start date was 
28 December 2020. He complains that Creation didn’t make it clear what date he had to 
make the payment by, and he wants it to refund the interest he’s paid.
Creation accepted Mr H had confused the special offer date with the first direct debit date. 
But said it was clear what each of these dates meant.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld as she couldn’t 
conclude that Creation had done anything wrong.
Mr H didn’t agree. He said, in summary, that:

His personal circumstances have not been considered. It had been a very stressful time 
for him due to caring for a family member who had fallen ill.

Creation should have done more to make him aware of the due payment date.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
The agreement makes it clear that interest is charged if payment is not made in full by the 
end of the BNPL period. I find that interest has been charged in line with these terms.
Creation agreed to extend the original special offer date of 28 August 2020 by three months. 
This meant the BNPL period was extended until 28 November 2020. Mr H needed to pay by 
that date to ensure he would not be charged interest.
Mr H says the email he was sent referred to 28 December 2020. Although there was a link to 
his account, he didn’t click on it. The date in the email was the start date for the monthly 
direct debit payments. I think this was made reasonably clear.
If Mr H had accessed his account online, he would have received more information about his 
account.
His monthly statements reflected the new special offer date. They said:
“..the Buy Now Pay Later period for your [television] is due to end 28/11/2020. If you pay the 
full amount of £799.00 by this date, you will not pay any interest on this purchase. After the 
Buy Now Pay Later period has ended your payment amount for this purchase will be £49.17 
per month starting on 28/12/2020.”
So I think Creation made it reasonably clear of when Mr H had to pay the full amount if he 
didn’t want to pay interest – on his statements and on his online account. I don’t find there 
was any obligation on Creation to write to Mr H separately to set out the various dates.
I’m not unsympathetic to the circumstances Mr H has told he was experiencing at the time. 
It’s clearly been quite stressful for him. But, even taking into account that he may not have 
been as focussed on financial matters, I think Creation did enough to make the revised 
payment dates clear.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2805493
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F is unhappy Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) didn’t default his account when 
he experienced financial difficulties in 2018.
What happened
In 2016, Mr F entered into an interest free loan with Creation.
In early 2018 Mr F’s health unfortunately deteriorated, and this caused him to experience 
some financial difficulties. He contacted a debt charity for help, and they set up a debt 
management plan for him. Mr F started making reduced payments to Creation through the 
plan in May 2018 and continued until Creation sold the account to a different company in 
October 2018.
In May 2020 Mr F complained to Creation, as he realised that unlike his other creditors, 
Creation had decided not to default his account. He didn’t think this was fair. He said 
adverse information about this account would still be visible on his credit file, long after the 
information about his defaulted accounts had been removed. So, he felt Creation should  
resolve things by asking the credit reference agencies to report a backdated default. 
Creation didn’t uphold the complaint as they said they had reported accurate information to 
the credit reference agencies, and they had followed all appropriate guidance when doing 
so. Our investigator agreed and said Creation were under no obligation to default Mr F’s 
account due to his financial difficulties. 
In response, Mr F said that in addition to not defaulting the account, Creation continued to 
chase him for payments and increased his debt by adding charges. He also said the debt 
management plan was never formally agreed, as he didn’t receive an acceptance letter from 
Creation.
As our investigator’s opinion remained the same -  I’ve considered the complaint afresh.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Mr F and Creation that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety.
Mr F has provided a letter from August 2018. It says Creation intended on adding a £30 
charge to his account, as he had cancelled a direct debit. I can understand why Mr F 
believes this is evidence Creation continued to add charges, and I also appreciate this letter 
is likely to have caused him some worry. However, I have carefully reviewed the statement 
of account, and I’m satisfied no charge was added. I think it’s likely this letter was generated 
automatically, and Creation therefore didn’t intend for it to cause the confusion or concern 
that it did. Unfortunately, Creation haven’t been able to provide their contact notes, so I can’t 
determine how regularly they called Mr F about his account. However, based on the 
evidence we do have on file, I haven’t seen anything which would suggest the contact he 
received from Creation was unreasonable or excessive.
Mr F has said the debt management plan was never formally agreed, as he didn’t receive  
written confirmation of it. Creation haven’t provided our service with a copy of an acceptance 
letter. However, I note that the proposal they received from the debt charity specifically said 
their acceptance would be assumed unless they heard otherwise. I don’t find this to be 
unusual, and I’m satisfied that based on Creation’s actions they accepted the terms of the 
plan. I know Mr F feels strongly that he should have received a confirmation letter, but this 
doesn’t mean an agreement wasn’t made, or that his account should have been defaulted. I 
would also reasonably expect Mr F to have contacted the debt charity directly, if he had any 
concerns about this issue.
Creation does have some discretion in relation to deciding whether their customers’ 
accounts should be defaulted. However, I would reasonably expect them to consider the 
individual circumstances fairly and refer to any appropriate guidance. The Information 
Commissioner’s Office (ICO) guidance about defaults and credit files is relevant here. In 
summary, it says that a default would normally be registered when an account is between 
three and six months in arrears. But a default won’t normally be applied, if a customer 
maintains all of the payments under an agreed reduced payment plan. Such temporary 
arrangements may last for some time but are generally expected to revert to the contracted 
terms at some future point. If reduced payments aren’t accepted by a lender due to them 
being too low or token payments, a default may still be applied.
I’m satisfied Creation applied the above guidance fairly, as Mr F didn’t miss any contractual 
payments before entering into the agreed debt management plan, and none of the reduced 
payments were missed either. While it’s clear Mr F unfortunately experienced a change in 
circumstances in 2018, I don’t think Creation had sufficient grounds to reasonably conclude 
he wasn’t going to be able to resume his contractual payments in the future. So, I think they 
acted fairly by accepting the terms of the plan and giving Mr F the breathing space to see if 
his circumstances were going to improve. The fact no charges were added to the account 
was also beneficial, as it meant all of Mr F’s payments went towards reducing the balance. 
Creation also acted in a manner I would reasonably expect when they sold the account, as 
they shared the details of the debt management plan with the new company to minimise any 
disruption.
Mr F has highlighted the fact his other creditors defaulted his accounts and said this is one of 
the reasons he feels he’s been treated unfairly by Creation. I do appreciate his logic here, 
and why he’s found this upsetting. However, each of Mr F’s creditors would have needed to 
make an individual decision. As the circumstances surrounding each account may vary, it 
stands to reason that the information shared with the credit reference agencies may also 
differ. So, I don’t agree with Mr F that not upholding this complaint, must automatically mean 
his other creditors treated him unfairly.
I know Mr F will be disappointed by this decision and feels strongly that all of his accounts 
should be removed from his credit file at the same time. But for the reasons I’ve explained, 
I’m satisfied Creation treated Mr F fairly and weren’t required to default his account. As such, 
I won’t be directing them to take any further action to resolve this complaint
My final decision
I’m satisfied Creation haven’t acted unfairly, so I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2836186
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) didn’t tell him when his 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) plan ended. So, he paid interest that he would like refunded. He 
would also like Creation to update its processes to make it clearer when payments are due
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view reached by our investigator for the following reasons: -

BNPL plans give consumers the opportunity to avoid interest payments if the full 
cash price is paid on or before the end of the BNPL plan. Mr A bought goods on 4 
August 2020 but didn’t make the full payment by 4 February 2021 which he needed 
to do so to avoid interest. As he didn’t make the payment in time, I don’t think 
Creation were wrong to apply interest to his account

Mr A says he was never told when the payment due date was. I can’t be sure what 
he was told at the point of sale. But I have seen his statements for December 2020 
and January 2021. Both statements state the BNPL period is due to end and state in 
bold the end date of the plan (4 February 2021). So, I do think Mr A had the 
information he needed to pay off the balance and avoid interest.

Mr A has told us he had difficulty logging on last year, I am not sure why  but if he 
was unsure when his plan ended, he could’ve contacted Creation by phone to check. 

Mr A would like Creation to alter its processes to make payments dates clearer. I do 
think this information was clear on the statements. But it’s not for us to tell 
businesses to alter its processes.
My final decision
My final decision  is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2843731
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly recorded a default on his
credit file and then delayed in removing it, causing him difficulty in re-mortgaging. 
What happened
Mr D took out a finance agreement with Creation for a laptop in June 2013. Mr D fell into
difficulties with his repayments and on 4 December 2013 he entered into an IVA. In
December 2018 Creation defaulted Mr D’s account.
Mr D successfully completed his IVA in December 2019. In March 2020 Mr D discovered
that Creation were still reporting the default on his credit file. Mr D sent the IVA discharge
paperwork to Creation and asked it to remove the default. Creation say that it requested the
credit file amendment on 21 March 2020.
Mr D applied for a mortgage in May 2020 and was advised that it would be declined because
of the default. Mr D secured a mortgage offer from another lender in June 2020.
Our Investigator didn’t think that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that there
was no evidence that Creation was told about the successful completion of the IVA before
21 March 2020 and then it removed the default. There was no evidence that the default
remained on Mr D’s credit file and prevented him from getting a mortgage.
Mr D didn’t agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. I asked for further information from Mr D about the timing of the mortgage 
applications. On the 27 April 2021 I made a provisional decision setting out why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint and asking for further information from both parties.
Mr D thought that £150 wasn’t enough to compensate him for the inconvenience caused and 
he said that he thought he would have been able to get a better mortgage deal but hasn’t 
provided any evidence.
Creation was not able to explain why it began reporting the default, or when, and was unable 
to provide any information about the reason for the default being reported.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any evidence that changes my conclusions I don’t see any 
reason to depart from them.
On the basis of the information I have, it appears that Creation were aware of the
terms of Mr D’s IVA and the default was reported in error. In these circumstances I don’t
agree with the Investigator that Creation did not need to remove it until the discharge papers
were received.
I can see from Mr D’s correspondence with the first lender he approached that he was not
able to proceed with that lender as the application would have been declined and caused
further damage to his credit report. Mr D was eventually able to secure an offer from a
different lender in June 2020.
Mr D hasn’t provided any evidence that would support that he secured a less favourable deal 
with the second lender. Mr D has said that his mortgage payments were £473 and under the 
re-mortgage they are £425. Mr D hasn’t provided any evidence that he would have been 
able to get a better deal than this. So I can’t say that he is out of pocket because of the error.
I think it is likely that the default was removed in around April/ May 2020 and so did not
impact on the second lenders offer. Even so, I think Mr D had considerable delay and trouble 
and upset in trying to put this matter right. 
For the trouble and upset I think that Creation should pay Mr D £150. I know that Mr D 
doesn’t think that this is enough but I don’t agree. The default was removed in a relatively 
short space of time and Mr D was then able to secure a favourable re-mortgage.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay Mr D £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2853535
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) handled his loan 
account during a period of financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2016 Mr A took out a loan with Creation for £10,000 with monthly repayments of £232. In 
2019 Mr A began to experience financial difficulties due to personal circumstances and was 
unable to make the contractual repayments to the loan account. In September 2019, Mr A 
stopped making payments and the loan fell into arrears.
At the end of October 2019 Mr A spoke to Creation and set up a three-month repayment 
plan. It was agreed that Mr A would pay £50 per month over the three months beginning in 
November 2019. Mr A made the repayment in November 2019 but was unable to make the 
repayment in December 2019 as he says he was out of the country visiting a sick family 
member and was unable to call Creation.
Mr A called Creation in January 2020 when he was back in the country. Mr A says the agent 
refused to accept payment during that call. Creation says the call disconnected and Mr A 
failed to call back to discuss repayment arrangements. Mr A says he wrote to creation 
following this call and never heard back, however Creation states that it sent a reply offering 
a further repayment plan. Mr A never received this letter and so didn’t make any of the 
repayments.
Creation entered a default on Mr A’s credit file against this account at the end of January 
2020 when Mr A’s account was around five months in arrears (based on the contractual 
repayments). However Mr A says it acted unfairly in doing this as he has never received any 
default notices or correspondence about the default and because he had entered into a 
three-month repayment arrangement at the time.
Mr A’s account was passed to a third-party debt collection agency in April 2020 and returned 
to Creation in July 2020. Mr A says, as his account has been incorrectly defaulted, Creation 
acted incorrectly in doing this.
During the course of our investigation Mr A became aware that his account had been sold to 
a third party and he says he was never informed of this. He complains that this shouldn’t 
have happened while he had an ongoing complaint and that he should have been informed 
about the sale.
Our investigator didn’t think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that Mr A broke 
the repayment plan when he didn’t make the payment in December 2019. And as Mr A was 
already in significant arrears, based on his contractual repayments, Creation acted fairly 
when it defaulted the account and passed it to a debt collection agency to recover the debt. 
Mr A didn’t agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that he entered into a repayment arrangement at the end of 2019 to pay £50 
per month for a period of three months from November 2019 – and that isn’t in dispute. 
However having reviewed his account transactions I can see that he hadn’t made his 
contractual repayments in September or October 2019 before he entered into the 
arrangement – so the account was already in arrears at that time.
There is also no dispute that Mr A made the £50 payment required under the repayment 
arrangement in November 2019. However he then failed to make a repayment in December 
2019 and only contacted Creation around the middle of January 2020. But by the time Mr A 
contacted Creation he had already missed a payment in December 2019. I was sorry to hear 
about Mr A’s circumstances around that time, however Creation was only able to act on the 
information it was given – and I can’t see that Mr A spoke to Creation to let it know that he 
wouldn’t be able to make a payment that month. So as far as Creation was aware, Mr A had 
broken his repayment arrangement with it, and it was no longer in place. 
Mr A says Creation refused to take a payment over the phone in January 2020, whereas 
Creation states that the call was disconnected, and Mr A didn’t call back. Had Mr A arranged 
to repay his arrears then he may have been able to avoid a default having been registered 
on his credit file at that stage. Unfortunately the call is no longer available due to the time 
that has passed. But I have Mr A’s account of the call and the call notes from Creation. 
While I appreciate that Mr A feels strongly that Creation refused to take a payment, Creation 
has provided contemporaneous notes of that call which state that Mr A disconnected the call 
and show that he didn’t attempt to call back. These notes suggest that the agent did explain 
that he couldn’t take a payment due to the previous arrangement being broken when the 
December 2019 payment was missed – but that the agent didn’t get the opportunity to 
explain the payment options as Mr A disconnected the call. I find this version of events to be 
persuasive and in line with what Mr A has also told us. So on balance I think it’s likely that 
the call was disconnected, and I don’t think it was unreasonable to expect that Mr A would 
call back, particularly given that he knew there were payments that needed to be made to his 
account.
I have also considered whether Creation acted reasonably in defaulting the account when it 
did. Creation wasn’t able to provide exact copies of the default letters sent to Mr A, which is 
common as these are often generated automatically. However it has sent us a copy of its 
notes showing a letter was sent to Mr A at the end of December 2019 and that the code for 
that letter corresponds with the code used for a default notice. This is shown again at the 
end of January 2020. So, on balance, I think it’s likely that Creation did send Mr A a default 
notice at the end of 2019 when he missed the payment due under his repayment 
arrangement.
At that time, Mr A was nearly four months in arrears. We would generally expect Creation to 
send a default notice once the account was between three and six months in arrears, which I 
think it did here – so I don’t agree that Creation has made an error. The default is registered 
on Mr A’s credit file against this account from the end of January 2020, which is in line with 
the notices I think were sent to him at the end of December 2019 as these would have given 
him around four weeks to meet the conditions of the default notice in order to prevent it 
being registered against Mr A’s credit file.
Mr A has also raised a concern about the information recorded on his credit file and we have 
queried this with Creation who have provided us with evidence to show the information they 
are reporting to the credit reference agencies. This shows that Creation is reporting the 
default date being in January 2020, which is in line with the information it has provided and 
the default notices it says were sent in December 2019.
There has been some confusion about repayment arrangements which were made after the 
default was registered. And while I can see there is some dispute over whether Mr A was 
informed about these arrangements, I don’t think they would have made a difference 
because the default appears to have been registered at that time so while the repayment 
arrangements would have reduced the amount outstanding, I don’t think it’s likely they would 
have changed the status of the account at that time.
Mr A has also questioned why Creation passed his account to a debt collection agency and 
why it was returned at a later date. Creation is able to use third parties to chase debts if it 
chooses to do so, regardless of whether the account is defaulted – although this is more 
common where payments aren’t being made. So I don’t think Creation made a mistake in 
using a third party to chase the debt. Ultimately the third party passed the debt back to 
Creation without providing a reason. Mr A believes this is because Creation made an error, 
however I haven’t seen any evidence of that.
Mr A has said that he believes Creation’s actions mean that an unfair relationship has been 
created. It is generally for a court to decide whether the relationship between the parties are 
unfair, but I have considered his comments when reaching my decision. However Mr A 
hasn’t said anything that makes me think the relationship was unfair and I don’t agree that 
Creation acted unfairly in defaulting this account when it did as I’ve explained above.
Mr A has been informed that his account has now been sold to a third party and says he 
wasn’t aware of this and has questioned why Creation didn’t contact him. I can see the 
account was sold at the beginning of 2021. However I haven’t seen that Mr A has 
complained directly to Creation or the new owner of the debt about this and given them a 
chance to respond. However we asked Creation about this and it informed us that it would 
expect the new owner of the debt to inform him of the sale – but as it is a separate company 
Creation wouldn’t be able to confirm if this happened.
Finally Mr A has complained about the length of time it took Creation to consider his 
complaint. This isn’t something that falls within my remit to comment on. However I note that 
Creation has offered £100 compensation in recognition of this. Mr A says he hasn’t received 
the letter where that offer was made so he will need to contact Creation directly if he now 
wishes to accept that offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
24 September 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2859188
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd have harassed him and they have said
he owes them money when he doesn’t.
What happened
Mr H has an account with Creation. He used to make his payments by direct debit but when
he stopped paying by direct debit he started to experience issues with Creation.
Creation contacted Mr H to inform him he was in arrears but Mr H said he typically tried to
pay £100 a month when his contractual monthly payment was around £78 a month so he
shouldn’t be in arrears. Mr H says that Creation constantly rang him and sent him letters and
he felt harassed by Creation. He said that he contacted Creation on a number of occasions
and call handlers informed him that he was up to date with payments but he says he still
kept getting communication from Creation saying he owed them money.
Mr H complained to Creation but Creation did not uphold his complaint. They said that since
December 2019 Mr H’s payment due date was on the tenth of the month but they had
regularly received payments before the due date, which meant the payments have not been
applied as the contractual monthly payment, but instead as additional payments that are
taken from the outstanding balance. They also said the account had fallen into arrears and
the letters, calls and text messages Mr H received were correct and in-line with their
collections process. As a goodwill gesture, Creation cleared the arrears from his account
and explained to Mr H that he would need to ensure that he made the monthly payment on
or just after the due date on the tenth of the month which would ensure the contractual
monthly payment was satisfied.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. Our
investigator said that Mr H had been making payments before his due date. This meant that
Creation treated these payments as overpayments and not being paid towards the next
monthly payment due. As a result of this arrears started mounting on his account. He said
that although it may be distressing for Mr H to receive letters/texts/calls from Creation, that
these were made to inform Mr H that the arrears were building up. Our investigator noted
that Mr H has requested paying £1 a month to Creation as he may now be suffering from
financial difficulty.
Mr H sent our investigator further information after he had sent the view of his investigation
which included payments from his bank statements to show that he had been making his
payments. He also asked the investigator to request calls from Creation as he said agents
had told him previously that he wasn’t in arrears. Our investigator issued a final view of the
investigation considering all of the information available to him. He documented Mr H’s
payments in his statement months. Our investigator said this showed while Mr H did make
payments, they weren’t all made on time. This resulted in some months Mr H paid less than
the contractual monthly payment. 
Our investigator detailed the section of the credit agreement which showed that the payment 
needed to be punctual. He explained to Mr H that Creation did not have a copy of the 
telephone calls that he referred to. Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigator’s, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has made a number of points to this service and I’ve considered and read everything
he’s said and sent us. But, in line with this service’s role as a quick and informal body I’ll be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding what’s fair and reasonable here.
I’ve considered what Mr H has said about him making overpayments on his outstanding
balance and that he wasn’t in arrears. Our investigator had documented in his final view
details of payments Mr H had made during statement periods. An example of this was that
Mr H made two payments on the due date of 10 January 2020 totalling £98.81 when his
contractual monthly payment was £77.94, but his next due date of 10 February 2020, Mr H
had paid £40 on 7 February 2020. So for the period between his February and March 2020
due dates he had paid a total of £40 when his contractual monthly payment was £77.94. So
because Mr H didn’t always pay his contractual monthly payment on the due dates or shortly
after, this is why payments weren’t allocated as he may have thought they should have
been.
Next I’ve looked at the agreement that Mr H signed to see what it says about repayments.
Section 3.1 of the agreement states the following:
“Each month on a date which we in our discretion will decide, we will send you a statement.
You agree that to the extent permissible by law we may send statements for you to view 
online
and for which an electronic notification shall be sent to you each month by e-mail to the
email address provided to us. Each statement will show:
• all of the transactions you have entered into;
• the repayment which is due that month for each transaction;
• any additional charges added to the Account;
• the total which you have to repay for that month; and
• the date on which repayment must be made.”
I’ve looked at Mr H’s statements and they are clear about how much the contractual monthly
payment is due, the total that he has to repay for that month and his arrears position if there
was one for the month. The statements are also clear regarding the due date. As Mr H often
did not pay on the due date this created the payments to be allocated sometimes as
overpayments when Mr H had already paid his contractual minimum payment in some
months. But when an overpayment is made, this reduces the overall outstanding balance,
but it doesn’t contribute to the following month’s contractual minimum payment and so I’m
not persuaded that Creation have made an error here as often the minimum contractual
monthly payment hadn’t been paid in the month it should have done. This created arrears on
Mr H’s account and is shown on his statements.
I’ve thought about what Mr H has said about how some call agents had told him that he
wasn’t in arrears. Creation doesn’t have a copy of all of the calls that they had with Mr H. So
while it would have been useful to listen to these calls I’m unable to do so. They have
provided three calls in which Mr H had with Creation. But all three call handers informed Mr
H that he was in arrears. I have also been able to look at the system notes from Creation
which include calls which Mr H had with them but the recordings aren’t available. The
system notes confirm a number of phone calls Mr H had with Creation where he was
informed why he was in arrears. As I’ve already mentioned, his statements also clearly show
he was in arrears and the payments that had been credited each month and shows the fees
– if applicable, which were set out in his credit agreement (if certain things happened) and
interest charged so I don’t think it’s unreasonable for Mr H to know why he was in arrears on
his account.
As Creation’s final response letter dated 1 July 2020 confirms to Mr H, they cleared the
arrears from his account and I think this is fair in the circumstances – where the arrears look
to have been correctly applied. So if Mr H spoke to Creation around this timeframe then he
wouldn’t have been in arrears. Creation also informed Mr H that he needed to pay his
contractual monthly payment on or just after the due date but as he didn’t pay at least his
contractual monthly payment moving forward then Creation were entitled to start their
collections process.
I understand that Mr H felt harassed due to the volume of letters which were sent out, phone
calls made and emails. Creation occasionally limited their contact to Mr H such as when he
raised his complaint, but then they lifted this to contact Mr H for further information – a
financial statement and medical documents, but equally they have to follow regulatory
requirements to send out information for accounts which are in arrears. That’s what they did
here and I don’t think they acted unfairly in doing so. Letters and calls like these will
sometimes be worrying to receive and read, but they have to be sent so the bank can tell a
customer what will happen, or has happened, to an account. I’ve noted from phone records
Mr H has sent us that he didn’t often answer the calls Creation made and that’s why I’m
persuaded they tried to keep ringing him as they were unable to speak with him. Mr H says
he ended up blocking Creation’s telephone number.
In summary, I’m satisfied that Mr H did not make at least his contractual monthly payment by
his due date and this led to arrears building on his account. While I can understand the
volume of communication could’ve been worrying for Mr H, I’m persuaded that they fairly
followed their collection’s process and attempted to contact Mr H to inform him of his arrears
position. So it follows I do not intend to ask Creation to do anything further.”
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Creation said they had nothing to add. Mr H responded and in summary he said 
the reason he only paid £40 in February 2020 is because Creation had credited £50 to his 
account. He also commented on most of the phone calls he had with Creation had gone 
missing.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at Mr H’s January and February 2020 statements again. Mr H’s January 
statement clearly shows he was in arrears. In addition, it says he needs to pay £77.94 by 10 
February 2020. But in looking at his February statement to see what was paid, it only 
showed that £40 was paid on 7 February. There is no mention of any £50 credit on the 
transactions for either one of these months. So as Mr H’s statement showed he needed to 
pay £77.94 (excluding arrears) by 10 February 2020 and he only paid £40 in this statement 
period, I’m satisfied that Creation have not made an error in the administration of his account 
here.
As I explained in my provisional decision Creation doesn’t have a copy of all of the calls that 
they had with Mr H. So while it would have been useful to listen to these calls I’m unable to 
do so. They have provided three calls in which Mr H had with Creation which I had listened 
too and I’ve read the system notes of other calls where they have been available. But I’ve 
not heard or read anything where Mr H has been told that he wasn’t in arrears on these 
calls.
In summary, Mr H’s response hasn’t changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr H will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2859253
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) gave him a loan that he 
couldn’t afford. 
He says he was already struggling with debts and that it was irresponsible of Creation to 
give him the money. 
What happened
In March 2017, Creation agreed to provide Mr J with a loan to consolidate some of his 
existing debts. The loan was for £15,000, repayable over four years. The APR was 18.9%, 
the monthly repayment £436.22 and the total amount repayable £20,938.56.
In 2020, Mr J complained to Creation that it shouldn’t have lent him the money, because he 
hadn’t been able to afford the repayments and it had made his situation worse.
Creation didn’t uphold the complaint. It said that the appropriate background checks had 
been completed and that the finance was approved based on the information provided by 
Mr J at the time of the application.  
Mr J referred his complaint to this Service. An investigator here looked into things and took 
the view that he didn’t think the complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary, that:
-
He didn’t think Creation had carried out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr J could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. This was bearing in mind that there were 
signs Mr J was having some difficulty managing his money. And that this ought to 
have been explored further. 
-
However, he didn’t think that such checks would’ve led Creation to conclude that the 
loan was unaffordable. This was based on Mr J’s bank statements indicating that he 
would be left with a reasonable amount of disposable income after factoring in 
relevant expenditure.
Mr J remained unhappy and so the case was passed to me to decide.
After reviewing the file, I asked for further information from both parties. 
I asked Creation for:
-
Further information about the checks it had carried out prior to agreeing to lend to 
Mr J
-
Information about some other credit that Mr J appeared to have with Creation. 
I asked Mr J to:
-
Explain why he disagreed with the investigator’s findings. 
-
Provide further information about expenditure on groceries, as his bank statements 
suggested surprisingly low spend on this. 
Creation provided the additional information I’d requested. 
Mr J responded to further explain how difficult his situation had been and why he considered 
that Creation shouldn’t have lent to him. With regards to the question about spend on 
groceries, he said that most of the time he went without, as long as his daughter was fed that 
was the important thing. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I don’t uphold this complaint. I appreciate this will likely come as a 
disappointment to Mr J, but I hope my explanation helps him to understand why I’ve reached 
this conclusion. 
I would add that it is clear to me that Mr J has been through a very difficult and challenging 
time due to various things happening in his life. After the lending in question, it’s clear that he 
experienced significant financial difficulties. But as I’ll explain below, at the time of the 
lending, I can’t see he was experiencing these difficulties. 
The crux of this complaint is that Mr J says Creation shouldn’t have lent to him, given the 
difficulties he was facing at the time. I’ve needed to think about whether Creation met its 
regulatory obligations and, if it didn’t, the impact (if any) this had on Mr J.
Under the regulations in place at the time Creation agreed to provide Mr J with the loan, 
Creation needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Mr J could 
sustainably meet the loan repayments. 
If I find that the checks it carried out were reasonable and proportionate and based on this 
Creation made a fair lending decision, then the complaint wouldn’t be upheld. If I find the 
checks carried out weren’t reasonable and proportionate, I’ll need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
What makes a reasonable and proportionate checks depends on relevant factors, such as 
the detail of the proposed lending in question (amount, type, duration, cost etc) and Mr J’s 
circumstances at the time. 
Creation has said it checked affordability by considering Mr J’s income against expenditure 
in terms of rent and the repayment of existing debt. It says it factored in that Mr J was 
intending to use the loan to consolidate much of his existing debt. And that this indicated he 
had reasonable disposable income left to meet other expenditure. It has also said that it 
checked for any recent CCJs and arrears (and didn’t find any) and that Mr J fell within its 
lending policy in terms of the monthly debt to income ratio. 
I agree with the investigator that I don’t think this represented reasonable and proportionate 
checks. I say this because Mr J was borrowing a significant sum of money and repaying it 
over quite a long period of time. The monthly repayment amount on its own represented a 
significant proportion of his net monthly income – almost a quarter. Also, at the point of 
applying for the loan, Mr J had accrued quite a significant amount of debt. Although the 
purpose of the loan was debt consolidation, it was known that it wouldn’t clear all of Mr J’s 
existing debts. 
Taking all of those factors into account, I think reasonable and proportionate checks 
would’ve involved taking a closer look at Mr J’s income and expenditure – to check that he 
would be able to sustainably make the repayments over the term of the loan.
In terms of getting a better understanding of Mr J’s financial situation, in particular in relation 
to his income and outgoings, Creation could’ve done this in a number of ways. As Creation 
didn’t take these steps, I can’t know what the checks would’ve revealed. However, I’ve seen 
a number of Mr J’s bank statements in the lead up to the loan application. 
I think it’s fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on this as an 
indication of what Mr J’s financial circumstances were likely to have been. And what 
Creation would’ve likely uncovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
The statements indicate that Mr J wasn’t having particular trouble managing his money in 
the lead up to applying for the Creation loan. I appreciate he has said he was already 
experiencing difficulty at that point in time, but the statements don’t support this. 
Across the three months leading up to the loan, Mr J’s total expenditure broadly equalled his 
total income. The expenditure was slightly higher, but it was marginal. The account was in 
credit the vast majority of the time. The statements show that when essential expenditure is 
deducted from Mr J’s income, he was left with a reasonable amount of disposable income – 
such that the loan repayment would’ve appeared to be repayable in a sustainable manner. 
Although the statements don’t show very much expenditure on groceries, had some 
additional essential expenditure been factored in, the loan repayments would still have 
appeared affordable and sustainable.
As such, I find that if Creation had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, I think it 
likely would’ve concluded that the loan repayments were affordable. 
I appreciate that Mr J has said he was already experiencing difficulty at the point of applying 
for the loan. However, his bank statements in the lead up to the loan and his credit file 
indicate that he ran into difficulty after applying for the loan. 
It follows that, in the end, I cannot reasonably conclude that Creation made an unfair lending 
decision. Because of this, it doesn’t need to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr J’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2868797
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) misled him about the end date 
of the buy now pay later (BNPL) promotional period for a purchase he financed through it. 
This meant he was charged interest. 
Mr G’s also unhappy he was sent arrears notifications after making a payment. He says this 
has impacted his mental health and wellbeing and he feels Creation hasn’t adequately 
compensated him. He’d like it to pay him £5,000.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. But I’d like to reassure Mr G 
and Creation that I’ve read and considered everything I’ve been provided in its entirety. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I consider Creation has already fairly resolved it for these reasons:

Mr G says he thought the due date at the bottom of the statement notification email 
was the date the cash price of £699.99 needed to be paid in full to avoid interest 
being charged. He feels this was misleading and he would have expected to be 
notified of the BNPL end date. 

I thank Mr G for forwarding the email which I’ve carefully reviewed. I can see why on 
first glance it could have caused confusion. But as the ‘Payment Due Date explained’ 
section in the email sets out –
 “If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to 
advise when your first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL end 
date will have been provided at the time of purchase, you will receive a 
reminder 30-40 days prior to the end date plus details are available to you in 
your Online Account Manager.” 
The email is accurate in that it informs Mr G when his first payment is due 
(6 September 2020). But this is separate to the BNPL end date.

I’m also mindful this email is a notification that Mr G’s statement is available to view 
online. Account statements contain important information and I consider it reasonable 
to expect customers to check them regularly. If they’re experiencing any difficulties in 
accessing this information, I’d also reasonably expect customers to flag this with the 
business.  

I’ve looked at Mr G’s statements for June and July 2020. Under ‘Important 
Information’, they state –
“The Buy Now Pay period is due to expire shortly. If your income has been 
impacted or you expect your income will be affected as a result of the 
coronavirus outbreak you may request a 3 month extension to the Buy Now 
Pay Later period…
...
If you are not affected by the coronavirus outbreak and or do not want to 
extend the Special Offer Period the Buy Now Pay Later period for your 
EXPRESS D DELIVERY ONLY is due to end 16/08/2020. If you pay the full 
amount of £699.99 by this date, you will not pay any interest on this purchase. 
After the Buy Now Pay Later period has ended your payment the amount for 
this purchase will be £40.75 per month starting on 06/09/2020.”
I consider Creation reasonably notified and reminded Mr G of the BNPL end date in 
advance by providing this information on his statement. 

I can see Creation has acknowledged it could have done more with regards to the 
wording in the notification email. I don’t think this means it accepts it didn’t provide 
Mr G with information about the end date of the BNPL promotion period. I don’t 
consider Creation intentionally misled Mr G about the end date of the BNPL 
promotional period. As I’ve set out above, I think this information was clear on his 
statements. In the circumstances, I consider Creation’s gesture to refund the interest 
when it was correctly charged to be more than reasonable.

I’ve next thought about Mr G’s concerns regarding the arrears and the impact this 
had on his wellbeing. I understand the first direct debit amount of £40.75 was in the 
process of being collected when Mr G phoned Creation to make a payment, and he 
paid the remaining balance. Unfortunately, the direct debit was returned unpaid. 
It isn’t clear why this happened, but I’ve not seen enough to persuade me Creation 
could have known in advance the direct debit would fail. So, I don’t think Creation 
can be fairly held responsible for Mr G’s account going in arrears.

I accept Mr G was distressed to find out he’d received arrears letters – first for £40.75 
and then £65.75 – when he says he’d spoken to Creation and agreed to make the 
outstanding payment by the end of October 2020. I acknowledge what he’s told us 
about how these letters made him feel. The regulator requires businesses to send 
arrears notices to customers when their account is in arrears. Even if a business 
agrees the payment can be made late, as Mr G suggests happened here, the 
requirement doesn’t go away. That said, I accept its possible expectations could 
have been managed better here if this wasn’t made clear.

Given Mr G’s account was in arrears due to a failed direct debit, I don’t consider 
Creation acted unfairly in writing to him about it. After the initial notice of arrears in 
September 2020, a further letter was sent in October 2020. I’m satisfied the 
additional £25 charge was added in line with the terms and conditions Mr G agreed 
to when he opened the account. But, in addition to refunding the interest charged on 
the BNPL purchase, Creation has waived the £25 charge and has refunded any 
additional amount Mr G paid over the cash price of the purchase. It’s also removed 
any adverse information on his credit file in relation to the arrears.

I know Mr G feels very strongly about the complaint and thinks the steps Creation 
has taken don’t go far enough in recognizing the distress he experienced. I accept 
finding out he’d missed the BNPL end date would have caused Mr G a degree of 
distress. I also accept the arrears letters would have heightened his anxiety levels. 
But when thinking about awarding compensation, I’d have to be satisfied Creation’s 
actions which affected his wellbeing were unfair or unreasonable. And I don’t think 
they were – a payment wasn’t received by the BNPL promotional period end date, 
and the account was in arrears due to a failed direct debit. Based on what I’ve seen, 
I don’t think there are sufficient grounds to direct Creation to pay an award in the 
region Mr G’s requested.
I recognise Mr G is likely to disagree with my findings, but I consider the steps Creation has 
already taken – refund of interest and any additional payment over the cash price, waiver of 
the £25 charge, and removal of adverse information on his credit file – to recognise any 
upset it may have caused him due to a misunderstanding is fair in all the circumstances of 
this complaint. So, I won’t be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has already fairly 
resolved this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2886297
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr D into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr D’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr D’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr D from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr D is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr D by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr D’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr D’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr D 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr D accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr D has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr D has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr D paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr D paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr D’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2898682
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the loan 
to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr B the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr B should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2898798
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) rejected her 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs W bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs W fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs W from the solar 
panels over the 5 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs W is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs W accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs W by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs W’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 5-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs W 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs W the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs W has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs W should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs W first 
contacted Mrs W that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Mrs W should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs W’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2898839
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Neither Creation nor Mr A responded, so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from the solar panels 
over the term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr A by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr A’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as Mr A would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr A has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr A has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr A paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr A’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2898865
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs M bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Neither Creation nor Mrs M responded so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs M fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs M from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs M is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs M have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs M and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs M and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs M accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs M has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs M has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs M receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs M’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2898908
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2905072
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t responded to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Neither Creation nor Mr P responded so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr P from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr P is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr P by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr P’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr P in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr P’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr P 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr P and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr P and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr P accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr P has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr P has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr P first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr P’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2905189
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) rejected his 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr G into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr G’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr G, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr G was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr G’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr G from the solar 
panels over the 5 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr G is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, Creation needs to reimburse Mr G accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr G by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr G’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr G in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 5-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr G’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr G 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr G and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr G accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr G has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr G the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr G has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr G should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr G paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr G paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount it would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr G’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2905462
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs W bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Neither Creation nor Mrs W responded so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs W fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs W from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs W is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs W by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs W’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs W have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs W has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs W has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs W’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2905591
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr E into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr E’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr E, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Neither Creation nor Mr E responded so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr E was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for he.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr E fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr E’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr E from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr E is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse he accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr E by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr E’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr E in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Mr E’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and he has not 
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair 
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr E have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr E accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr E has settled the loan, Creation should pay he the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr E has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr E paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr E paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr E the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr E first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr E’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2905848
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2909671
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer in response to her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 was insufficient. 
  
What happened
Ms H bought solar panels for her home in May 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. 
Creation accepted the installer had misled Ms H and made an offer of settlement. Broadly 
speaking, that offer was to restructure the loan (which had been paid off) to make the solar 
panels self-funding. It also offered £100 compensation.
Ms H felt this was insufficient. She pointed out that she’d taken a new loan (with a different 
credit provider) in order to pay off the Creation loan and had to pay interest on that – which 
she wouldn’t have paid if she hadn’t been misled by the installer of the solar panels. So, she 
felt that the additional interest she paid on the new loan should be taken into account.
Ms H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought the costs of the 
new loan (in proportion to the amount used to repay the Creation loan) should be taken into 
account when Creation settled the complaint. Neither Creation nor Ms H’s representative 
responded to the adjudicator, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because Ms H wouldn’t have incurred 
the additional costs of the new loan had she not been misled about the benefits of the solar 
panels.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that Creation should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms H from the solar 
panels over the loan term so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms H has paid more than she should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Ms H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then I require Creation to restructure Ms H’s loan. It 
should recalculate the loan to put Ms H in a position where the solar panel system is cost 
neutral over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Because Ms H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms H paid on the part of the refinanced loan that was used to pay 
off the Creation loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I think that Creation’s offer of £100 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. So, if it hasn’t already done so, I direct 
Creation to pay Ms H £100 compensation.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms H’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2911351
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs W bought solar panels for her home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs W fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs W from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs W is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs W accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs W by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs W’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs W 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs W and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs W the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs W has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs W should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs W receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs W’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2915421
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr T into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr T’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr T was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr T fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr T’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr T from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr T is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr T by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr T’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr T in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr T have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr T accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr T has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr T has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr T paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr T paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr T first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2915582
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
mis-representation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr M’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2915694
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Ms B bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Ms B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms B from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Ms B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Ms B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Ms B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms B have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Ms B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Ms B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Ms B has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Ms B has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms B receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms B receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2916214
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr M’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT)
scheme. But Mr M’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and he has not
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2921389
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation’s”) decision not to support 
a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigator’s view. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mr C was upset about the delays and poor service he received from the supplier of his sofa 
and armchair. I don’t think those issues can fairly be considered against Creation. They’re 
jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation but they’re not responsible 
for the service Mr C received.
Creation are liable for the quality of the goods. The relevant legislation says that when goods 
are supplied with a fault the business have one opportunity to repair them. Mr C’s sofa was 
repaired so I think Creation have done all they need to in that respect.
But Mr C also had a problem with the armchair he bought. The photographs he has supplied 
show a white mark on the arm and I think it’s likely that mark was there when the chair was 
delivered as Mr C complained about it pretty quickly. There was no mention of the arm of the 
chair being loose when Mr C made his complaint to Creation so that’s not something I think it 
would be fair to ask Creation to consider. There’s no evidence that fault was present when 
the goods were supplied.
I’ve considered the redress that’s already been provided to Mr C and I think £200 is sufficient 
when considering the distress, inconvenience and quality concerns in light of the use Mr C 
has already had from the items and their original cost.
I don’t think it would be fair to ask Creation to provide any further redress.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2928052
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs N bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs N into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs N’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Neither Creation nor Mrs N responded so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs N was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs N fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Mrs N requested further compensation on top of what the adjudicator suggested. But I’ve not 
seen evidence of any additional distress or inconvenience caused by Creation that would 
warrant this. Mrs N also asked for an additional amount to cover potential future problems or 
costs relating to the solar panels. But I don’t think it would be appropriate to make an award 
for costs that haven’t been, and may never be, incurred.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs N’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs N from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs N is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs N by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs N’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs N in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs N’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as Mrs N would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs N have the following 
options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs N and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs N and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs N accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs N has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs N has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs N paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs N receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs N paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs N receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs N the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs N first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs N’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2928264
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mrs M bought solar panels for her home in December 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Creation didn’t respond at first, so this case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision. 
Then, in October 2021, Creation offered to pay Mrs M £5,344.03 in full and final settlement 
of her claim (which consisted of a refund, interest on the refund at 8% a year, and £100 for 
her inconvenience), without admitting liability. I am told that Mrs M accepted that offer, but 
after that she heard nothing more from Creation, and the compensation has still not been 
paid.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Creation has made an offer and Mrs M has accepted it, I think it would be fair to hold 
Creation to that offer, and so I will order Creation to honour it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Mrs M £5,344.03.
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mrs M has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, then it 
must also pay simple interest on the compensation at 8 percent a year from that date to the 
date of payment.
Creation withheld £280.11 in income tax on the interest element of its offer. Creation should 
also give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if appropriate. Mrs M should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the 
approach it has taken, and both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more 
about the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2931356
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr M’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2931500
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd set up two credit plans she had 
entered into for items incorrectly and says they should have been interest free and not buy 
now pay later plans.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs T wished to buy an item from a retailer and decided to finance this 
purchase by entering into a credit facility called “Your Plan” with Creation. This plan provided 
Mrs T with a total credit limit of £5,000 which she could use for this and any other 
subsequent purchases. The account was set up online with monthly statements and other 
information being uploaded as and when in accordance with the option selected by Mrs T as 
to how she wished to operate the account online. 
The terms and conditions of the credit agreement set out that each time the credit was used 
it would be one of three different types of transactions depending on the goods or services 
that were being bought. The three types of transactions available were:

Interest free 

Interest bearing 

Buy now pay later 
Mrs T also signed a direct debit mandate for payments to be made under the agreement.
The first purchase undertaken by Mrs T was an interest free plan to be paid by equal 
instalments over a six-month period. These payments were made by direct debit.
In September 2018 Mrs T purchased a second item. Creation says that this item wasn’t 
available under an interest free plan as the first item had been and Mrs T entered into a buy 
now pay later plan (“BNPL”) for it instead. It says the BNPL instructions were uploaded on to 
Mrs T’s online account. And under the BNPL scheme, payment for the item was deferred for 
six months and no interest was payable, so Mrs T was free to choose to pay off the item in 
full, pay something towards the balance or make no payments at all in the deferred period. If 
at the end of the deferred period there was a balance outstanding for the item, then interest 
would be applied from the date of the transaction. The balance was then payable over 24 
monthly instalments via direct debit. No direct debits would be taken until after the six-month 
period had passed.
However, Mrs T says she was told by the salesperson this was a six-month interest free 
purchase and she thought it would be like her first purchase where equal instalments were 
paid via direct debit over that six-month period. She says she did not check her online 
account because she had relied on what she had been told by the salesperson. Mrs T also 
says that as the direct debits were set up to come out of a bank account that wasn’t closely 
monitored, she didn’t notice payments weren’t going out.
In February 2019 a statement was uploaded to Mrs T’s online account informing her that the 
specified offer date for her second purchase was about to end. Mrs T didn’t pay anything 
towards to balance and when the deferred period ended interest was then applied to the 
outstanding balance.
During that same February, Mrs T purchased a third item using the credit plan. Again, this 
item was BNPL though Mrs T says she was told it was interest free and thought that it would 
operate like the first purchase with regular direct debit payments being taken to cover the 
cost of the item over the six-month period.
A statement was sent to Mrs T in July 2019 setting out that the specified offer date was 
approaching. Mrs T didn’t pay anything off this balance and so interest was added.
In November 2019 Mrs T became aware that she was paying interest on both items 
purchased under the BNPL plans and that the direct debits hadn’t been requested by 
Creation to pay for the goods until each of the deferred periods had ended. Mrs T 
complained to Creation that she had been misled as to the plans she had taken out and was 
unfairly being charged interest.
Creation didn’t uphold her complaint. It said that both the items purchased by Mrs T had not 
been available to buy through interest free plans and had been set up as BNPL plans with 
details provided to her online account. It said that had Mrs T paid for the items within the six 
months of acquiring them then no interest would have been applied. It said that in all the 
circumstances no mistake had been made in the setting up of these two agreements and it 
had been fair to apply the interest charges as it had.
Mrs T was unhappy at the response from Creation and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didn’t recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said Creation had 
provided Mrs T with all the necessary information about the two BNPL plans via her 
statements and online account, so she didn’t think it had done anything wrong. Our 
investigator said that Mrs T hadn’t been misled when told these items were interest free for 
six-months because no interest was added for that period.
Mrs T disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said Creation hadn’t been able to 
show her proof that she had taken out any BNPL plans and says she wouldn’t have agreed 
to this type of transaction. She says that without any information to the contrary she had 
assumed these two purchases operated in the same way as the first six-months interest free 
plan had, with payments being taken by direct debit over that six-month period and had been 
misled. Mrs T says she hadn’t seen a copy of the agreement.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the documentation that has been provided, I’ve seen that at the time Mrs T 
purchased the first item, in April 2018, she had entered into a revolving credit agreement. 
This agreement operates in the similar way to a credit card as there is a credit limit set and 
Mrs T is able to make drawdowns from that limit to purchase different items. The agreement 
has no fixed duration.
Looking at the terms and conditions of that agreement it sets out under the heading 
“Transactions” that “each time credit is used it will be treated as one or either of the following 
transactions”. It then sets out “One or more of these transactions will be available, 
depending on the goods and services you are buying. We will tell you which it is, the period 
over which it must be repaid (“transaction period”) and the monthly repayment which will 
apply.

Interest bearing transaction…..From time to time we may offer credit on specific 
goods at promotional rates which we will tell you at the time.

Interest free transaction: a transaction on which no interest is payable.

Buy now pay later transaction: a transaction on which repayments are deferred for a
specified period which we will tell you (“deferral period”).
Interest

No interest will be payable on interest free transactions; and

Providing you repay the sum burrowed under the Buy now pay later transaction 
before the end of this deferral period no interest will be payable. If you do not repay it 
in full before the end of the deferral period, then interest will be applied from the date 
the transaction was made. We will advise you that the deferral period is about to 
come to an end in the statement issued the month before.”
This agreement was signed electronically as was the direct debit mandate that was with the 
agreement. An online account was created for Mrs T that would have monthly statements 
uploaded on to it and would also allow her to manage her account by supplying other 
information to her. Mrs T would also receive monthly emails informing her that a statement 
was about to be uploaded.
Mrs T has queried why Creation can’t produce the individual BNPL plans that she entered 
into, but there aren’t any separately signed plans. This is because the BNPL transactions are 
part of this revolving credit agreement. Creation says she would have been given a receipt at 
the shop and then the details of those purchases would be included in the monthly 
statements which would also advise about any deferred payment dates, payments due and 
interest to be applied. Creation also says that due to the nature of BNPL plans, direct debit 
payments aren’t taken until the deferred period has ended as this gives the consumer 
flexibility about how to pay. It says this would have been clear from the statements sent to 
Mrs T.
I don’t know what was said by the salesperson to Mrs T, but it was clear that the purchases 
were done via the Your Plan account and that Mrs T appears to have been aware of this. 
I’ve seen that Mrs T has also accepted that she didn’t look at her online account to check her 
statements nor did she check that any direct debits were being taken for the second and 
third items that she’d bought. So, she didn’t view the statements and was unaware that her 
presumption about the direct debits was incorrect.
However, I’m satisfied on the evidence that I have seen that Mrs T was provided with all the 
necessary information via her online account. Monthly statements were sent, and these set 
out what purchases had been made and when any deferred periods for BNPL plans were 
ending.
I appreciate Mrs T strongly believed that the second and third items she had purchased 
would operate in the same way as the six-month interest free plan worked but I think that it’s 
more likely than not that she misunderstood the salesperson when they raised the items 
came with six-month interest free period. I can’t reasonably say there was no interest free 
period because it was an option for Mrs T to clear the costs of those items within six months 
and incur no interest.
I also don’t think that it’s likely Mrs T would have declined to take out the BNPL plans for the 
two items if she’d been clearer about how these plans worked. The items couldn’t be 
purchased via interest free plans as her first item had, but with these plans Mrs T had the 
option to pay off the full balance over a six-month period and not have any interest applied. 
So, I don’t think I can reasonably say the BNPL plans were unfair.
While I appreciate Mrs T was expecting Creation to take direct debit payments for the two 
items immediately (or within one month) following their purchase, I can’t say Creation acted 
unfairly in not doing so. Had Mrs T looked at her statements then she would have been 
aware no payments were being made and she would have been able to rectify this position if 
she had wanted to. 
Looking at the evidence I don’t think Mrs T was misled about the BNPL plans nor do I think 
that Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in adding interest to the balances for the 
two items purchased under the BNPL plans. It provided Mrs T with all the necessary 
information as to how the BNPL plans worked and when the deferred interest period was 
coming to an end. The BNPL plans are included in the terms and conditions of the Your Plan 
credit agreement she had entered into. So, for the reasons given, I’m not upholding Mrs T’s 
complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m not upholding Mrs T’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2932601
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acknowledged but didn’t 
provide a full response to her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
  
What happened
Miss B bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Miss B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Miss B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Miss B, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Miss B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss B from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Miss B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Miss B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss B have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Miss B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Miss B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss B has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Miss B has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Miss B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss B receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Miss B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss B receives her refund.
5.
Pay Miss B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Miss B’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2933387
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) rejected his 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr C accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr C by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr C has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr C the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr C should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2933506
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acknowledged but didn’t 
provide a full response to her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
  
What happened
Miss H bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Miss H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Miss H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Miss H, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. 
Creation indicated that it may accept the assessment but asked for further information, which 
was then provided to it. It then did not respond within a reasonable timeframe. So, the 
complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Miss H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss H from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Miss H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Miss H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Miss H’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and she has not 
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair 
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss H have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss H has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Miss H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Miss H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Miss H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Miss H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Miss H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2933905
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs K bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation that was repayable over five years. Creation is therefore liable for the acts and 
omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mrs K into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
weren’t.
Mrs K’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs K, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
five-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t asked for 
some more information which was provided to it. But it didn’t respond within a reasonable 
time, so the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs K was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
However, I’ve decided the redress should be calculated over a ten-year period, rather than 
the five-year term of Mrs K’s loan. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and 
reasonable to both Mrs K and Creation. 
Because Mrs K can expect to benefit from the solar panels (through energy saving and 
Feed-In Tariff payments) for 20 years, I think a ten-year period is reasonable when 
calculating the redress. In this specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the 
appropriate balance in terms of fairness.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs K fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs K’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs K from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs K is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs K by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs K’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs K in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs K have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs K and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs K accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs K has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs K has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs K paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs K receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs K paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs K receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs K the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs K first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs K’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2934283
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in June 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr L into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s decision. It asked for copies of Mr L’s feed-in tariff (FIT) 
statements so that it could calculate how much compensation to pay him. These were 
provided in September 2021, but Creation did not respond, despite being chased by the 
adjudicator, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Creation accepted the adjudicator’s opinion, and that opinion is in line with our 
service’s usual approach, I think it is reasonable to uphold this complaint and to hold 
Creation to its offer to settle this complaint in line with what the adjudicator recommended.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on 
the known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels over the ten year 
term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and 
any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr L is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr L in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr L’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr L 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr L accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr L has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr L has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr L paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2936031
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in March 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and they lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than they should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr A has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr A has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr A paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2936951
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over a [redress term] period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a [redress term] period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2938006
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr V is unhappy with how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) handled his claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) - for a faulty sofa and the adverse 
information it recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr V purchased a sofa from a retailer who I will refer to as “S” and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation to pay for this. In February 2020 when the sofa was delivered, Mr V 
said the product came damaged and so he contacted S about this. Following an inspection, 
S agreed the sofa was faulty, but as it was unable to provide an exact replacement, Mr V 
asked to cancel the order. 
Unhappy with how things had unfolded, Mr V raised a complaint with Creation on 9 March 
2020. On 24 April 2020 Creation sent Mr V a final response letter. It confirmed that the S75 
claim had been upheld and S had agreed to collect the faulty goods at the end of the 
COVID-19 lockdown. Creation also confirmed that S had asked for payments on the account 
to be put on hold until the sofa was collected.
Mr V has said that despite being told the payments would be on hold, he received letters and 
notifications from Creation asking him to make payment towards his finance agreement. He 
also explained that there were six missed payment markers registered on his credit file 
against his Creation account, between May 2020 and October 2020, which he said affected 
his credit score.
In November 2020, Mr V contacted the credit reference agency (CRA) to ask it to amend his 
credit file by removing the missed payment markers. However, he received correspondence 
back from the CRA, which said it had been told by Creation that the data it held for him was 
correct and so it couldn’t amend his credit file.
On 27 November 2020 the sofa was collected by S. 
On 30 December 2020, the CRA notified Mr V that Creation had permitted it to remove all 
the late payment markers from his credit file. 
Mr V however remained unhappy with how long Creation had taken to resolve this issue. He 
also explained that due to the pandemic, his financial situation had worsened, and he had 
applied for loans, which he was rejected for. He considered Creation and its recording of 
adverse information as the reason for the loans being declined. Mr V also mentioned how he 
had received court documents from his landlord, who was looking to evict him for unpaid 
rent. He thought this was as a result of the late payment markers registered by Creation.  
Our investigator upheld Mr V’s complaint in part. He thought Mr V had to store the faulty sofa 
at his property for an unreasonable amount of time and he agreed that Mr V’s credit file was 
significantly impacted through no fault of his own. 
However, in terms of the impact the adverse information had on Mr V, ultimately there wasn’t 
enough evidence to say this was the reason Mr V was declined for the loans. He also wasn’t 
persuaded that the recording of adverse information on Mr V’s credit file led directly to him 
being served with court documents for eviction over unpaid rent. 
For the overall distress and inconvenience caused to Mr V, the investigator thought Creation 
should pay £200.00. The investigator also asked Creation to return Mr V’s deposit of £100 
plus 8% simple interest from the date this was paid.
Creation accepted the investigator’s view, but Mr V didn’t. In summary Mr V said:

The compensation should be increased to reflect his storage of the sofa, which 
he put at £30 per month. 

He still believed the situation with his property had arisen due to the misreporting 
on his credit file. This ultimately resulted in a county court judgement against 
him. 

He still believed the late payment markers had meant he couldn’t access credit, 
which in turn impacted his ability to pay his tax bill. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties agree that Mr V had a valid S75 claim, and the remedy for this was for the sofa 
to be collected and the finance agreement cancelled. Given that I also consider this to be a 
fair and reasonable remedy, I will not comment further on the S75 claim itself. Instead my 
decision will focus on the outstanding issues Mr V remains unhappy with, which are the 
delays he encountered with the sofa being collected and the adverse information recorded 
on his credit file by Creation and the impact this had on him. 
I will deal with each concern in turn:
Delays in collecting the sofa 
Creation received Mr V’s complaint in March 2020 and sent its final response in April 2020. 
In its final response letter, it confirmed that the faulty sofa would be collected after the 
current lockdown period was over.
When looking at the timeline for the UK lockdown, the first UK lockdown began easing in 
June 2020. However, the sofa wasn’t collected until 27 November 2020.
Whilst I appreciate Creation wasn’t responsible for the initial delays by S with the collection 
of the sofa, following its final response letter, it was informed by Mr V and our service that 
the sofa had still not been collected, and I think it could’ve better assisted Mr V by trying to 
arrange for the sofa to be collected sooner.
In terms of storage, I appreciate Mr V has mentioned storage fees at £30 a month, but from 
the available evidence, I can’t see anything to suggest that the sofa was stored anywhere 
other than his home, or that he was paying for storage. 
However, I do appreciate that Mr V was caused inconvenience by the sofa taking up space 
in his home, especially as he didn’t even use the sofa, and the delays to the sofa being 
collected would have added to his inconvenience. And so, I’ve taken this into account when 
considering what compensation overall to award Mr V.
Adverse information recorded for Mr V in his credit file
Creation in its final response letter in April 2020 confirmed payments would be on hold until 
the sofa was collected. However, Mr V provided us with an extract from his credit file relating 
to his Creation account, showing six missed payment markers registered between May 2020 
to October 2020, and the account being recorded as in arrears. Mr V confirmed the adverse 
information recorded on his credit file was eventually corrected in December 2020.
It is clear from the evidence that I have seen that Creation had promised to place Mr V’s 
account on hold and so I don’t think it acted fairly when it reported the incorrect information 
to the CRA.
From the evidence provided by Mr V, it’s clear he had spent time trying to resolve the matter 
with Creation, as well as contacting the CRA to try to get the incorrect adverse information 
sorted out when Creation didn’t rectify its mistake. It is important that firms accurately report 
the status of an account to the CRA’s and failure to do so can be distressing for consumers, 
particularly if it happens at a time when they are trying to secure credit. I accept Mr V was 
caused distress and inconvenience because of this.
In terms of Mr V’s submission that the adverse information recorded was the reason why his 
applications for loans were declined, and how this led to him being unable to meet his 
financial obligations, such as rent, I’m unfortunately not persuaded on this point and I will 
explain why. 
I can see that Mr V initially provided the investigator with an extract from his credit file 
relating to his Creation account, as well as a copy of an application for a business current 
account which was unsuccessful in November 2020. He has also supplied a copy of a tenant 
hardship loan which he unsuccessfully applied for in May 2021. 
In order to consider the impact of the late markers reported by Creation, I asked to see a full 
copy of Mr V’s credit file. He declined to provide this. Without sight of this, I can’t assess the 
extent to which the Creation mis-reporting impacted his overall credit standing. 
So, from the available evidence, I am not persuaded that the adverse information on the 
credit file led directly to Mr V being declined for the loan applications and suffering the losses 
he is claiming for. Moreover, there are many factors that feed into a decision to grant credit 
and an applicant’s credit file is just one of those factors. 
It is worth highlighting that the application for the tenant loan was some five months after 
Creation had removed the adverse information, and in those circumstances, it is difficult to 
conclude that Creation's reporting of adverse information was the sole reason Mr V's tenant 
loan was refused. 
While I may not be satisfied that the adverse information was the reason Mr V was declined 
for his loan applications, I am satisfied Creation recorded incorrect information which clearly 
caused Mr V distress and inconvenience at a stressful time, when he was struggling 
financially and when he needed to apply for credit. Mr V had to also spend time contacting 
the CRA directly to try to get the adverse information amended which would’ve only added to 
his inconvenience. 
When thinking about the delays, and the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr V, whilst 
the investigator suggested £200 compensation, I consider £350 to be more reasonable in 
the circumstances to which Creation has also agreed with. I consider this award fairly 
reflects the impact Creation's actions had on Mr V. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr V may still be unhappy with the outcome, I do not think there are 
sufficient grounds to ask Creation to pay anything more than £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to: 

Refund any payments made by Mr V from the start of the agreement to termination 
plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date of payment until the date it is 
refunded.

Pay Mr V £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr V a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2938281
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs D complains that she was supplied with a cooker which was not of satisfactory quality 
under a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a credit agreement with Creation to fund the purchase of a cooker on 7 
January 2020. 
In June 2020 Mrs D asked Creation to raise a section 75 (s75) claim because she wasn’t 
satisfied with the cooker’s performance. She said that she’d followed a recipe which said the 
cooking time of a sponge was 30 minutes at number 4, but to achieve the desired results in 
her oven, it required a further 25 minutes at number 6. 
Creation didn’t think that Mrs D had a valid s75 claim. Ultimately it responded to a 
subsequent complaint about the outcome of the claim made by Mrs D in September 2020. It 
suggested that Mrs D take the issue up with the manufacturer.
Mrs D referred the matter to this service. She explained her cooker doesn’t stay at a 
constant temperature which means she has to monitor cooking progress and turn the 
temperature up. She also said that it takes longer than it should to cook things.
Mrs D said that the cooker’s manufacturer sent an engineer to inspect it and they told her 
that that because it was a Turkish brand of cooker it would perform differently to, for 
example, a British made one. She said that the engineer would not check the thermostat to 
see if it needed calibrating. She said that the supplier had mis-sold the cooker because it 
hadn’t explained that it would work differently to a British cooker. 
One of our investigators considered Mrs D’s complaint, but they didn’t uphold it. In summary, 
they said that Mrs D’s claim had been raised just outside of six months from the point of 
supply, it had been inspected by an engineer who didn’t find it necessary to attempt repairs, 
so there wasn’t sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the cooker was not of satisfactory 
quality. They also said that they hadn’t been presented with evidence that the cooker’s 
country of origin meant it performed differently, or that the supplier had misled Ms D about it. 
Mrs D disagreed. She maintained that the cooker’s temperature was not consistent and 
clarified that the supplier ought to be clearer regarding the cooker’s level of performance. 
She also said that she would not have complained if the manufacturer’s engineer had 
replaced the thermostat.
The case has been passed to me to make a decision on it. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mrs D has said I think it’s clear that she feels strongly that she ought to have a 
successful claim under s75. Mrs D has made a number of detailed submissions about why 
she thinks her claim should be successful. I won’t address every point Mrs D has raised 
because I don’t think that’s necessary to explain what I consider a fair and reasonable 
outcome is in the circumstances. I can, however, assure Mrs D that I’ve fully considered 
everything she’s said and sent us.
In deciding a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs D’s complaint, I have to take into account 
relevant law, amongst other things. The relevant law here is s75. It makes Creation 
responsible for a breach of contract in respect of goods or services provided under Mrs D’s 
agreement. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this case. It says that for a contract 
to conform, goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied – defined as being what a 
reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. 
The CRA also contains a presumption that where goods don’t conform to the contract within 
six months of the date of supply, that they didn’t conform at the time of supply. This 
presumption applies unless it’s shown that the goods did conform to the contract at the time. 
In the specific circumstances of this case, Mrs D was supplied with a new item. So, I’d 
expect it to be free from defects for a reasonable period of time. I’d also expect it to be 
sufficiently durable.
I’m aware that Mrs D contacted Creation within six months of the point of supply – June 
2020. It seems that Mrs D may have referred the matter to the supplier, and did refer it to the 
manufacturer. It’s not clear when she did this – Creation’s records suggest it may have been 
sometime in July 2020 but Mrs D’s correspondence suggests it was June 2020.
In any case, whether Mrs D had raised the issue just within or outside of six months from 
supply, I’d have expected Creation, perhaps, to commission an inspection of the cooker 
given what Mrs D said about its performance. That is, if one hadn’t been carried out already. 
Mrs D has told us that following her contact with the manufacturer it sent an engineer to 
inspect the cooker. She told us that the engineer didn’t provide her with a report, but she has 
given us her testimony about what they said and what happened.
From what Mrs D has said, I have no doubts that she’s not satisfied with her cooker’s 
performance. But that doesn’t mean to say that the cooker isn’t of satisfactory quality. To 
establish that, I’ve based my decision on the available evidence, which is Mrs D’s testimony 
about the problem she experienced with her cooker, as well as what she’s said she was told 
by the engineer who inspected it.
From what Mrs D’s said it sounds like the cooker was covered by a manufacturer’s warranty, 
which is likely why it sent an engineer to inspect it. Mrs D has told us that the engineer didn’t 
make any repairs, specifically declining to adjust or replace the thermostat. Mrs D says that 
the engineer didn’t provide a written report, but on balance, I’m persuaded that the engineer 
likely would have attempted or recommended repairs if they’d found it necessary. 
Additionally, my interpretation of Mrs D’s account of her exchange with the engineer is that 
they told Mrs D the cooker was working satisfactorily.
I’ve also considered what Mrs D told us the engineer said about it being necessary to turn 
the cooker up higher than a British made variant to achieve the same result. I wasn’t present 
during that conversation, so I don’t know exactly what was said. In any case, even if I accept 
the engineer had said something along those lines, I don’t think it’s unreasonable to expect 
that cookers made by different manufacturers might achieve the same or similar results 
whilst using different settings. So, based on Mrs D’s account of her conversation with the 
engineer I’m not satisfied that it suggests the cooker wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator invited Mrs D to provide further evidence to support her claim that the 
cooker didn’t hold its temperature correctly, and suggested that Mrs D might be able to do 
this by supplying pictorial evidence of a thermometer showing a difference in temperature 
readings, or an independent report on the cooker. Mrs D asked this service to obtain a report 
from the manufacturer, but I think it was for Mrs D to obtain and provide such evidence, and 
she’s had sufficient opportunity to do so. Mrs D otherwise didn’t provide further evidence. 
Overall, based on what I’ve said above, I consider there to be reasonably strong evidence 
that the cooker was of satisfactory quality. I think it was for Mrs D to provide evidence to 
demonstrate that it wasn’t, but I don’t think she’s done that. As a result, I’m not persuaded 
there’s been a breach of contract. And it follows that I don’t think it was unfair for Creation to 
turn down Mrs D’s claim. 
Lastly, like our investigator, I’m not satisfied that Mrs D’s cooker was mis-represented to her. 
I say this in the most part because I’ve not seen any evidence to suggest that she was told a 
false statement of fact about the cooker’s performance. I’m also not persuaded that the 
particular brand of cooker Mrs D purchased doesn’t perform on a similar level to a British 
made equivalent, so I don’t think the supplier ought to have communicated that, as Mrs D 
suggested.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2939252
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. Mr S is also unhappy 
because he says he could’ve paid for the solar panels without a loan, but the seller insisted 
that wasn’t an option. And he was pressured into agreeing to the purchase on the day as he 
was told it would cost more if he waited even 24 hours (which he was keen to do).
Mr S has since suffered from ill health and has had to stop working. He has had some 
financial difficulties and says the loan repayments are not helping.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I have thought about what Mr S has said about being able to pay for the solar panels without 
use of a loan and the difficulties he’s since had with his health and finances. As well as that 
he felt pressured into agreeing the purchase on the day.
That Mr S felt pressured at the time of sale has not been important in my decision, since I’m 
upholding the complaint for other reasons. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr S has had health problems and subsequent financial difficulties. In 
my opinion, the financial difficulties he is suffering from appear to be a consequence of his 
health problems – which meant he had to stop working. I don’t think those health problems 
could reasonably have been foreseen at the time Mr S was sold the solar panels and agreed 
to take the loan. 
I’m also mindful that if Mr S had savings at the time (as he has suggested, and which I have 
no reason to doubt) then, with the benefit of hindsight, the fact he took the loan may actually 
have been helpful – in that it may have left those savings available to help with additional 
costs or reduced income after his health deteriorated and he had to stop working. 
So, these things have not had an impact on what I’m telling Creation to do to put things right. 
This, in effect, makes the solar panels self-funding. And, in setting out what Creation must 
do to put things right, I provide options for how the compensation is paid. This means Mr S 
can choose the option that is most beneficial for him. My intention is that Mr S will not, as far 
as is reasonably possible, be out of pocket due to agreeing to purchase the solar panels and 
take the loan.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2940279
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t provide a final response 
to her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Miss H bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Miss H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Miss H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Miss H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Miss H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss H from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Miss H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Miss H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Miss H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Miss H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Miss 
H have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Miss H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss H has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Miss H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Miss H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Miss H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Miss H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Miss H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2942247
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation made an offer to settle the complaint based on the amounts Mr S repaid in 2014, 
when he settled the loan early with Creation. Mr S felt the offer did not fully compensate him 
for his losses and referred the matter to us. He wanted Creation to offer compensation 
based on the figure he borrowed, not the amount he settled the account for.  
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
She explained to Mr S that, as he had repaid the Creation loan early, he had not paid the full 
amount set out on his credit agreement - interest was adjusted to take account of the early 
repayment of the loan. So, as he hadn’t repaid the amount on his credit agreement, he 
would not be entitled to have his settlement based on that figure. At this time Mr S explained 
that he had repaid the Creation loan by taking a refinance loan that enabled him to repay the 
Creation loan early. So, while he appeared to understand what our adjudicator was saying, 
he still felt he hadn’t been fully compensated for his losses. 
Our Adjudicator then reviewed the complaint based on the evidence Mr S provided and 
explained to Creation that Mr S had taken a refinance loan with another provider to allow him 
to settle his loan with Creation early. And that Creation should take into account the losses 
Mr S incurred with the refinance loan he took with an alternative provider in order to fully 
compensate him. 
Creation said it accepted our adjudicator’s view of the complaint and said it would make an 
offer to settle the case including the losses Mr S had incurred in relation to the refinance 
loan. But it didn’t make an offer or explain why it hadn’t done so. So, the case was passed to 
an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation.  
As explained above, I understand Mr S has settled his loan early, so Creation offered to pay 
Mr S the difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under 
the restructure above, with 8% interest.
But Mr S has said he settled the loan by refinancing. I understand Mr S settled his Creation 
and refinance loan many years ago (2014 and 2015 respectively). Due to this, the 
documents related to the closure of his refinance loan are no longer available – I don’t think 
that’s surprising. But I have reviewed the evidence Mr S has been able to provide (which I 
understand has also been passed to Creation for it to review). Based on what I’ve seen, I’m 
satisfied that Mr S did use a refinance loan to settle his Creation loan, and has provided 
sufficient evidence to allow Creation to work out redress in line with our established 
approach to these types of cases. 
As our adjudicator explained, because Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, and Mr S 
has supplied sufficient evidence of the refinance to Creation, Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I understand Creation has offered to pay £100 compensation to Mr S for any inconvenience 
caused in relation to this complaint. I agree with that offer and direct Creation to pay £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2942676
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs H bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs H from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs H by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs H have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs H has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs H has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2942985
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr C by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr C has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2943070
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr E into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr E’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr E, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr E was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr E fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr E
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr E’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr E from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr E is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr E accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr E by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr E’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr E in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr E’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr E 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr E accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr E has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr E the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr E has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr E should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr E paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr E paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr E the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr E first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr E’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2946781
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in January 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the 66 month term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 66 month loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2947886
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr L into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr L fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr L is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr L by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr L’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr L in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr L have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr L and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr L accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr L has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr L has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr L paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr L’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2948082
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Mr P advised added that he had repaid the Creation loan by taking out a refinance loan with 
another provider. So, our adjudicator explained to Creation that where a customer repaid a 
loan with Creation using funds from another loan, we would also expect it to compensate a 
consumer for the losses associated with that loan.
Creation said it accepted our adjudicators view of the complaint but having completed the 
above calculation, it said the amount Mr P had paid to settle his Creation loan was the same 
as the self-funding amount it calculated. So, it said Mr P had suffered no loss and there was 
no redress due. Creation did offer to pay some of the interest Mr P paid on his refinance loan 
but, it did not work out redress in accordance with our established approach to these cases. 
Mr P rejected Creation’s offer and asked it to offer him redress in accordance with our usual 
approach to these types of cases. But Creation did not respond. 
As the complaint could not be resolved, the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr P fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, like our adjudicator explained, and Creation agreed to do, I 
think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr P’s complaint for 
Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr P from the solar panels over the term of the loan so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr P is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr P accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr P by way of explanation.  
As explained above, Mr P has settled the loan, so Creation offered to pay Mr P the 
difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with 8% interest. But this led to no redress being due to Mr P. 
But as Mr P has advised, he has settled the loan by refinancing, and we would expect 
Creation to also address this as part of its redress calculation. While I understand Creation 
has made an alternative offer, Mr P hasn’t accepted it. So, below I set out what we expect 
Creation to do when a consumer uses a refinance loan to repay their Creation loan. Mr P 
has supplied evidence of the refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr P receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available for Creation to uphold this 
complaint and offer compensation in line with our established approach to redress in these 
types of cases. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr P’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2954355
--------------------------

The complaint
 Mrs F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs F bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs F fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs F from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that. I note that Mrs F 
has sold the property where the solar panels were installed.  
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs F is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, Creation needs to reimburse Mrs F accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs F by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT)
scheme. But Mrs F’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and she has not
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs F have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs F and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs F and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs F accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs F has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs F the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs F has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs F should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs F receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs F receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs F’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2954516
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr H and Ms R have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected 
their claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr H and Ms R bought solar panels for their home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr H and Ms R into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr H and Ms R’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr H and Ms R, and that fair redress would 
be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Creation initially indicated it agreed with our 
adjudicators view but didn’t make an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Mr H and Ms R have also informed us that they’re account with Creation is in arrears and 
have asked that their credit file remain unaffected by the arrears. Our adjudicator explained 
to Creation that we still felt the self-funding redress was fair, and that if the loan had been 
self-funding, we are satisfied the consumer would’ve made the payments. So, she asked 
Creation to ensure their credit file remained unaffected by the arrears. Creation did not 
respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H and Ms R were not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr H and Ms R fairly and they lost out because of what 
Creation did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr H and Ms R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr H and Ms R’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H and Ms R 
from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H and Ms R re paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have Creation needs to reimburse Mr H and Ms R accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr H and Ms R by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr H and Ms R’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H and Ms R in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H and Ms R’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mr H and Ms R have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to 
be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Ms R and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and Ms R and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr H and Ms R accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept
If Mr H and Ms R have settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr H and Ms R the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
If Mr H and Ms R have settled the loan by refinancing, Mr H and Ms R should supply 
evidence of the refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr H and Ms R paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Ms R receive their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr H and Ms R paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H and Ms R receive their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr H and Ms R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
Additionally, I understand Mr H and Ms R’s loan account with Creation is in arrears as they 
have stopped making payments due to the ongoing complaint with Creation. I think Creation 
needs to waive any late fees that have been added to the account and remove any negative 
markers from the consumers’ credit file as I’m satisfied that, if the panels had been self-
funding, as they were represented to be, that Mr H and Ms R would’ve made their monthly 
payments. 
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H and Ms R 
first contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr H and Ms R’s complaint. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2954820
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in May 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they clearly weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint (brought on his behalf by a claims management company) was considered 
by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-represented 
to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the 
panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. She also recommended 
that Creation pay Mr W £100 for his trouble.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision. I wrote a 
provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Neither party has provided me with a copy of the loan agreement. Mr W did not keep his 
copy, which I infer is because of his learning difficulties (of which I have seen medical 
evidence in the form of a letter from his doctor). I asked Creation for a copy, but it did not 
respond. Nevertheless, I have been able to ascertain from the evidence I do have that the 
loan term was for seven years and that Mr W had to pay £96.36 a month, which adds up to 
£1,156.32 a year. Creation has not disputed that his estimated benefit from the panels would 
have been less than that.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Normally, I would require Creation to compensate Mr W by recalculating the original loan 
based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels over 
the seven year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
However, I have seen evidence confirming that Mr W never registered for his feed-in tariff 
(FIT), and so his benefit from the panels has been even less than was estimated. It is now 
too late for him to register. On the balance of probabilities, I think it is more likely than not 
that his failure to register was because of his learning difficulties. Whether or not Creation 
realised that he had learning difficulties at the time, I think that Creation should bear the 
resulting additional loss, since Mr W would not have found himself in that position if he had 
not been sold the panels, and the panels were mis-sold.
So, having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the seven year term of the loan – but disregarding the estimated FIT income – 
and to restructure the loan so he pays no more than that. Creation should recalculate the 
loan to put Mr W in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the seven 
year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
Mr W may also keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has 
ended.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I will direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W accepted my provisional findings. Creation did not respond by the deadline. So there is 
no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2955873
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr C accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr C by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr C has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr C the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr C should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2962562
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) started a finance 
agreement before the carpets the agreement financed were all fitted. He also complains that 
Creation have reported missed payments to his credit file.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator’s findings. Please let me explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr P made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Our investigator asked Creation for their file on this complaint at the end of May 2021 and on 
a further three occasions in the following weeks. As no reply was received he provided his 
view on Mr P’s complaint on 22 July 2021 and he asked Creation to provide any further 
information they would like the ombudsman to consider before 20 August 2020. 
Unfortunately, Creation haven’t responded, and I think it would be unfair to ask Mr P to wait 
any longer for a resolution, so I’m providing a decision with the information I have available 
to me.
Mr P says that the hall carpet wasn’t supplied until June 2020. He says he therefore 
authorised direct debits from July 2020 and he’s provided a statement of account that shows 
he hasn’t missed a payment since.
In Creation’s final response letter, they have suggested that Mr P signed a satisfaction note 
in March 2020 and that’s why they started to request payments on the account. Mr P has 
disputed that, and I’ve not seen a copy of that satisfaction note. It seems that the installation 
in March 2020 was for the carpets on the stairs and landing but that the hall carpet wasn’t 
fitted at that time. On the information available to me I think that was likely to be the case 
and I’m persuaded it wouldn’t be reasonable to expect Mr P to pay for goods that weren’t yet 
received.
I think the date payments should have started was in July 2020 when Mr P reinitiated the 
direct debit.
Mr P has provided copies of his credit file. There are at least eight missed payments 
recorded on that credit file which, even if delivery was completed in March 2020, would have 
been far too many. I’m not persuaded there is evidence that Mr P has missed any payments. 
Those should have started in July 2020 and did.   
Putting things right
Creation should remove any late payment markers and any charges associated with those 
late payment markers.
Mr P has clearly been inconvenienced by Creation’s actions. He’s struggled to get a 
response from them, and they appear to have recorded inaccurate information on his credit 
file. In those circumstances I think Creation should pay him £300 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr P’s credit file in 
relation to this agreement and any interest or charges they may have applied as a 
result of missed payments;
pay Mr P £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2963954
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr T bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr T into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr T’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr T was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr T fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr T
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr T’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr T from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr T is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr T accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr T by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr T’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr T in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr T’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr T 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr T and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr T accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr T has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr T the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr T has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr T should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr T paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr T paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr T receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr T first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2964104
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs A has complained, on behalf of the estate of her late husband Mr A, that Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected the estate’s claim against it under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to Mr A’s purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in March 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A died in 2020, and his wife is the sole executrix of his estate. She brings this complaint 
on behalf of the estate (and she is represented in turn by a claims management company). 
To keep things simple, I will describe this complaint as her complaint from here on, although 
technically it is really the estate’s complaint and she is not able to bring this complaint in her 
own right. That is because only Mr A had a contract with the installer, and so only he had the 
right to bring a claim for misrepresentation against the installer or, under section 75, against 
Creation. (It’s also not clear that she was also a party to the loan.)
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mrs A £100 compensation.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong, and that he was inconvenienced by this financial loss. And this means that Creation 
should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs A’s household 
from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and 
she keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs A is paying or has paid, or Mr A has paid, more than they 
should have, then Creation need to reimburse Mrs A accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term (treating her as standing in her 
late husband’s place).
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs A have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs A and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs A accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
Since the loan has now been settled, Creation should pay Mrs A the difference between 
what she (or her husband) paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with interest at 8% a year.
I have been told that the loan has been settled by refinancing. Therefore Mrs A should 
supply evidence of the refinance to Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs A (or her husband) paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr or Mrs A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs A receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount Mr A would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim under section 75 should have been upheld. 
However, I cannot award Mrs A compensation for that, since (as I’ve said) she is not a 
complainant in her own right.
However, Mr A himself was inconvenienced in his own lifetime, by the additional monthly 
expense he incurred, as a result of the mis-sale of the panels, between 2014 and 2020. If he 
was alive, I would have ordered Creation to pay him £100 for his trouble, and so I will make 
that same award to his estate. Since Mrs A is the sole beneficiary and executrix, I direct that 
Creation must pay the £100 to her directly.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A’s 
representatives, on behalf of the estate of Mr A, to accept or reject my decision before 
3 January 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2967633
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs G bought solar panels for her home in January 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs G into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs G’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs G was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs G fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs G’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs G from the solar 
panels over the term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the event the calculation shows that Mrs G is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation need to reimburse Mrs G accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs G by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs G’s loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs G in a position where 
the solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs G’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs G 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs G 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mrs G 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs G and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs G and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs G accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If the Mrs G has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs G the difference between what 
she paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs G has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs G paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs G paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs G receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs G first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs G’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2969039
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr K bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr K into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr K’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr K, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr K was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr K fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr K’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr K from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr K is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr K by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr K’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr K in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr K have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr K and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr K and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr K accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr K has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr K has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr K paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr K receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr K paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr K receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr K the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr K first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr K’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2969091
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in June 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2969139
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss T complains about the quality of a sofa she financed through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss T, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
So, if Miss T was supplied with a sofa that wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied I’d 
think there was a breach of the implied terms of the contract and I’d ask Creation to take 
some further action.
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs after the first six months of ownership 
the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate the fault was present when the goods were 
supplied, the point at which Creation were responsible for the quality of the goods.
Here, I’m not persuaded Miss T has been able to demonstrate that. She’s not, for instance, 
provided her own inspection report to challenge the findings of the supplier’s.
The supplier’s inspector thought the delamination/peeling was due to accidental damage and 
didn’t think the fault was there from the start.
In those circumstances I don’t think there’s sufficient evidence this sofa was of unsatisfactory 
quality when supplied and I don’t think it would be reasonable to tell Creation to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2977136
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for two properties in 2014. The purchase was funded by a single 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
systems, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Usually the calculation would include savings from Mr M using some of the electricity 
generated. However, in the case of the second property, if this is rented out and Mr M does 
not pay for electricity at that property, then he cannot benefit from this. So, for periods where 
that is the case, I don’t think savings should be taken into account when the benefit of the 
solar panels is calculated. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2979051
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t compensate him for what he
believes are defective goods he bought with a loan Creation provided.
Mr H is assisted in his complaint by Mrs H. For ease of reading I’ve described actions taken
by either of them as being taken by Mr H.  
What happened
In November 2017 Mr H took out an interest-free loan with Creation to buy a pair of leather 
reclining sofas and a carpet from a retailer, which I’ll call S. S delivered the furniture towards 
the end of February 2018.
A couple of weeks later Mr H contacted S to say that the recliner handles on the sofas were 
loose, expressing concern that this was a danger to his baby daughter. S arranged for an 
adjustment to be made to the handles, though Mr H says he remained unhappy with the 
situation. Shortly after this, Mr H told S he was dissatisfied with marks that were appearing 
on the seats of the furniture. S sent a technician to inspect the marks. He concluded the 
marks were surface problems rather than a manufacturing defect. The technician cleaned 
the marks using leather and solvent cleaners.
In October 2019 Mr H contacted S again, to report further problems with marking on the 
sofas. Again this was on the seat cushions, but this time he also reported marks and flecking 
on the headrests. S undertook an inspection, for which Mr H paid £70, concluding that the 
marks on the seat cushions were due to accidental damage, and that the marks on the 
headrests were down to “contamination of head oils”.
Mr H disputed S’s conclusions. He said the sofas had been well cared for and cleaned 
regularly. He didn’t think the furniture was of satisfactory quality and contacted Creation to 
seek a refund after this was rejected by S. Mr H also mentioned that his daughter had 
recently been injured by the furniture fittings and questioned the safety of the sofas given his 
young children.
Creation also rejected Mr H’s claim. In doing so, it cited the conclusions in the earlier reports 
S had obtained, and said that S had told it the issues were matters of wear and tear. 
Creation told Mr H that to consider the matter further he would need to demonstrate the 
furniture was inherently faulty at the point of supply. This would mean Mr H obtaining an 
independent report at his own expense, which he subsequently did, paying £130.
In the meantime, a third party alternative dispute resolution scheme (“A”) considered Mr H’s 
claim against S. A didn’t uphold Mr H’s claim, saying that he hadn’t demonstrated the 
problems with the sofas were due to a manufacturer defect. Creation has referenced A’s 
February 2020 report in its submissions to us.
Mr H’s inspection was carried out by a third party (“B”) in July 2020. B concluded that the 
work carried out on the recliner handles was an inadequate repair, and that the remaining 
gap was a potential hazard. B also considered the problems with the sofa finish were likely 
due to pre-delivery issues, and that this pointed towards a failure to meet the test of 
durability. B didn’t think the issues with the sofa were capable of repair.
Our investigator thought Creation should compensate Mr H. He said the problems with the 
finish and the recliner handles suggested the furniture wasn’t of satisfactory quality, as 
indicated by B’s report. The investigator proposed that Creation refund Mr H’s costs from the 
inspections he’d paid for, along with interest. He thought Creation should pay Mr H 
compensation for the inconvenience and upset experienced in dealing with matters, which 
the investigator assessed at £200. And the investigator suggested Creation terminate the 
loan agreement with nothing further for Mr H to pay, as well as refund half the payments 
Mr H had made to reflect that he’d had some use of the furniture.
Mr H was unhappy with the investigator’s conclusions and proposed outcome. He didn’t 
think it properly reflected the timeline of events or the way in which Creation had handled 
matters. Creation also didn’t agree with the recommendation. It said it considered the earlier 
reviews confirmed there were no faults, expressing the view that they were more credible 
sources than B’s report.
As neither party has accepted the proposed outcome, the matter was passed to me for 
review.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision to both parties, setting out my thoughts on the key 
complaint points and how best I thought matters should be resolved. In my provisional 
findings I said:
“Although neither party has sought to question Creation’s potential liability here, for 
completeness I should set out how that potential liability has arisen. Creation gave a 
loan to Mr H to buy the sofas. The loan in question is regulated by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (“CCA1974”). One effect of section 75 of CCA1974 is that, where an 
individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided under pre-existing 
arrangements between the lender and the supplier, that individual can bring a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way he 
could against the supplier.
The supplier here was S and Creation was the lender. Mr H has a claim for breach of 
contract against S, and therefore can bring the same claim against Creation, as he 
has sought to do. Mr H was unhappy with Creation’s response to that claim and 
complained about it. He then referred that complaint to us.
In order to decide whether Creation has dealt fairly with Mr H, I have to think about 
his underlying claim for breach of contract against S. Mr H’s contract with S 
incorporates provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA2015”), meaning it is 
to be read as including a term that the sofas would be of satisfactory quality. That, as 
B’s report noted, includes such matters as durability. Durability means the goods 
must be sufficiently durable, that is, they should be made to last a reasonable period 
of time. An item is of satisfactory quality if it is of the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in the circumstances.
I’m conscious that another dispute resolution body, A, has already looked at whether 
the furniture was of satisfactory quality, albeit in the context of a claim against S 
rather than against Creation. I don’t consider that prevents me from taking a view on 
that matter, or that I am bound to share A’s conclusions. A’s report is not binding on 
Mr H. Further, it clearly states that it is based on the available evidence, and that Mr 
H hadn’t satisfied the burden of proof it required of him to demonstrate his claim. The 
available evidence didn’t include the report Mr H commissioned from B, which he 
didn’t obtain until a few months later.
I don’t share Creation’s view regarding the credibility of B’s report. B appears to me 
to be an expert in his field. He cites some 35 years’ experience conducting 
independent inspections, and that he is registered for this purpose with Trading 
Standards services. I further note B’s report says that he also held managerial 
positions with S in Service Inspection Quality Control. Creation does not give any 
substantive reason for questioning B’s credibility, and I’m satisfied B has the 
appropriate experience and expertise to compile his report.
Creation has referenced the earlier reports carried out by the technician and by S. I 
consider the technician’s report of limited value. It deals only with the marks then 
apparent on the seat cushions, not the recliner handle repair or the later marks on 
the headrests and cushions. The fact that the technician was able to remove the 
earlier marks doesn’t mean the sofa was free from latent defects that might only have 
become apparent further down the line.
That leaves the report from S. That report contains some high quality photographs of 
the condition of the sofas, which are undoubtedly useful. However, I think it would be 
fair to say S’s report doesn’t contain the level of detail expressed in B’s report. It 
gives me little information on the experience or expertise of the inspector, though I’ve 
no reason to question this. But it also fails to mention the issue with the recliner 
handles, and gives no significant explanation of why it concluded that “head oils” was 
the underlying cause of the surface damage shown in the photographs.
Even if that were to be substantiated, I think it would speak to the issue of whether 
the sofa manufacture was sufficiently durable. S inspected the sofa in November 
2019 – about 18 months after Mr H took delivery. That doesn’t strike me as a 
particularly long time, even for an item of furniture likely to be in daily use. A 
reasonable person might expect a sofa they’d looked after to last longer than 18 
months before displaying such problems. B’s report notes that the “…furniture is 
clean and looked after showing no signs of neglect or misuse…”, echoing S’s report 
describing the furniture condition as “good”.
I see no reason why, in light of this, I should conclude that the issues with the sofas 
are down to a lack of care or ordinary wear and tear on Mr H’s part. Rather, I’m 
satisfied that I can fairly place reliance on the conclusions in B’s report, which 
addresses the key issues Mr H raised and explains its reasons for determining that 
the problems are down to inherent defects in the sofa finish pre-supply, and an 
inadequate repair on the recliner handles.
Overall, then, I’m currently minded to conclude that the sofas S supplied to Mr H 
weren’t of satisfactory quality as required under the CRA2015, and that under the 
relevant provisions of the CCA1974, Creation is liable to him for the resultant breach 
of contract. I now turn to the matter of how best to deal with that breach.
putting things right
Under the CRA2015, where goods aren’t of satisfactory quality certain remedies are 
available to the consumer. These include a short-term right to reject the goods, the 
right to a repair or replacement, and the right to a price reduction or the final right to 
reject the goods. Other remedies include claiming damages arising from the breach 
or seeking specific performance of the contract.
I don’t think the short-term right to reject would apply in this situation. Although Mr 
H’s first report of dissatisfaction was within a couple of weeks of delivery, the 
passage of time after that suggests to me that it would be wrong to say Mr H had 
rejected the sofas within the 30- day period specified in the CRA2015. And I don’t 
think the technician’s visit would be the right date either. Mr H and his family 
continued to use the sofas for some time after this, albeit that they weren’t entirely 
satisfied with the remedial work that had been carried out. I think the appropriate 
point to use for this purpose is November 2019, when Mr H disputed the response he 
received from S about the deterioration of the upholstery.
An effective repair is ruled out based on the fact there’s been a previous 
unsuccessful attempt on the recliner handles and on B’s assessment of whether this 
would be possible in respect of the other problems with the sofas. It also doesn’t 
seem right to suggest a price reduction. Mr H’s dissatisfaction with the condition of 
the sofas is behind the complaint, rather than the price he paid. And it seems to me 
unlikely that Creation is in a position to replace the sofas. It is a credit provider, rather 
than a furniture supplier.
I think it’s most likely that Mr H would be able to exercise his final right to reject the 
sofas, which would entitle him to a refund of money already paid towards them, 
subject to an appropriate deduction for use. I don’t think the 50% deduction our 
investigator suggested is quite right in this respect. While Mr H and his family have 
had some use of the sofas, that use has been notably impaired over time.
A’s report provides a working formula for this, which in the absence of any obvious 
alternative, I’m happy to adopt. That formula is the purchase price of the goods (here, 
£3,457) divided by the life expectancy of the goods, multiplied by the number of 
years or months the consumer had use of the goods (so based on November 2019, 
around a year and a half). The life expectancy of a sofa isn’t a set period, so I’ve 
thought about how long a reasonable person might expect such a sofa to last, taking 
into account matters such as the price paid.
Although Mr H has mentioned a 20-year guarantee, according to S’s website this 
applies to the sofa frame rather than the upholstery. In respect of the latter, S 
provides a 12-month guarantee, which is consistent with the warranty information on 
the manufacturer’s website. But in any event, I’m not minded to say goods should 
last only as long as the period for which they’re guaranteed. After careful 
consideration, I think it would be appropriate to use 10 years as a working figure, 
based on the reasonable expectation I’ve mentioned. That gives the following 
calculation:
(£3,457 / 10) x 1.5 = £518.55
So Creation would be entitled to deduct £518.55 from the refund of the money Mr H 
has paid towards the sofas. The calculation is complicated slightly by the fact 
Creation also lent Mr H money to buy a carpet, which forms part of the money he’s 
paid each month. In the interests of a simpler calculation for both parties, I’m minded 
to suggest Creation is entitled to retain the £518.55 deduction for use as calculated 
here, along with the £502.37 being the amount it lent for the carpet; £1,020.92 in 
total. It should calculate and refund Mr H all amounts he’s paid over this sum, and 
treat the loan agreement as at an end.
I’m conscious of the concerns Mr H has expressed about the hazard the sofas pose 
to his children. Creation should make suitable arrangements with Mr H to take the 
sofas into its possession as soon as possible, noting such arrangements should be at 
no cost to Mr H. Mr H has incurred costs in demonstrating the breach. He’s had to 
obtain two reports at a cost to him of £200. He shouldn’t be out of pocket for this. I 
propose that Creation compensates him for these costs by paying him £225, to 
reflect the costs incurred and to reflect the fact he’s not had the use of this money for 
over a year.
I note Mr H has mentioned his daughter being injured by the sofa and is considering 
claiming compensation for this. I should make it clear this isn’t something I’ve been 
minded to address in the context of Mr H’s complaint about Creation’s response to 
his breach of contract claim. What Mr H has described appears to be a personal 
injury to a member of his family rather than to him. While I have every sympathy for 
what has happened, that case is by no means as clearly laid out as the issue of 
whether Creation has liability for the sofas not being of satisfactory quality. I should 
say though, that if Mr H is minded to accept my decision, he might want to take legal 
advice on how that might impact on any future claim he might look to take against 
Creation and/or S in respect of personal injury.
Although it has been mentioned by Mr H and our investigator, I don’t propose to 
make any award to reflect any distress Mr H might have experienced as a direct 
result of the supply of the sofas. The contract between Mr H and S was to supply 
specified goods. It wasn’t a contract for pure enjoyment or designed to provide peace 
of mind. It’s not certain a claim for compensation arising from distress due to the 
breach of contract would be successful, given the general approach the courts have 
taken towards this sort of claim.
However, our rules do allow me to make a money award to reflect distress or 
inconvenience in relation to a complaint, as distinct from the breach of contract claim. 
And I do think overall Creation could have handled matters better than it did. From 
what I’ve seen, there were occasions where Creation failed to respond to Mr H’s 
claim correspondence in a timely manner. Further, I don’t think I could say Creation 
had proper regard for the content of B’s report, despite having told Mr H in February 
2020 that it would investigate further if the report confirmed a manufacturing fault or 
failed repair.
I’m conscious Mr H has strong feelings about Creation’s conduct here. I should make 
clear that it’s not for me to fine a business or make an award as a punishment. But I 
don’t doubt Creation’s handling has caused Mr H distress and inconvenience, for 
which Creation should compensate him. I can see that Mrs H’s health conditions 
have been extensively detailed in the complaint submissions. Again, while not 
intending to diminish the impact the whole situation’s had on members of Mr H’s 
family, I must assess what I think’s fair and reasonable compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience, as he’s the eligible complainant under our rules. I consider the 
£200 our investigator proposed is a fair sum in this respect.”
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments they wished to make in response.
response to my provisional decision
Mr H responded to my provisional findings. He accepted my conclusions and the proposed 
resolution, making the following points:

The credit agreement was paid off some time ago, so there should be no outstanding 
balance against which redress should be offset

He’d been able to source a replacement sofa on a temporary basis, so it was 
important the faulty goods were uplifted as soon as possible

Creation had in the past taken a long time to respond to their situation and he was 
anxious to avoid any further delay in finally settling matters
Creation acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but made no further submissions 
in response to my proposed conclusions.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said anything that causes me to change my provisional findings, or that 
leads me to reach a different conclusion. It follows that, for the reasons I’ve set out here and 
in my provisional decision, I’m upholding Mr H’s complaint.
I’ve noted Mr H’s comments. I don’t think it’s necessary to amend the settlement calculation. 
If he has repaid the credit in full, this calculation simply means he will receive the money as 
part of the refund instead of having nothing further to pay. However, I take his point 
regarding the need to avoid further delay.
I’m aware that Creation has told us of difficulties it’s having due to Covid-19 implications. But 
I have to balance that against the ongoing problems Mr H has experienced; not least the 
need to store a redundant pair of sofas and his financial situation, which means he’s unable 
to bear the cost of a longer-term replacement until Creation refunds him. Taking these 
factors into account, I think it’s appropriate that I set a fair timescale in which Creation must 
carry out the resolution I’ve instructed. I’ll set out this timescale below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To settle it, Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd must take the following steps to resolve the dispute:
1.
Within five calendar days of being notified of Mr H’s acceptance of this final decision, 
contact Mr H to arrange a suitable date on which to collect the faulty goods. 
Collection should be at no cost to Mr H.
2.
Calculate the total amount Mr H has paid under the credit agreement;
3.
Deduct from the sum in 2. the amount of £1,020.92 to reflect the price of the carpet 
and the use Mr H has made of the sofas;
4.
Pay Mr H the remaining sum after the deduction in 3. and – in the event it hasn’t 
already done so – treat the credit agreement as being at an end. For the avoidance 
of any doubt, this account should show as being fully settled on Mr H’s credit file;
5. Pay Mr H £225 to compensate him for the costs he incurred in obtaining the third 
party reports; and
6.
Pay Mr H £200 for his distress and inconvenience
For the avoidance of any doubt, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take steps 2-6 
within 28 calendar days of being notified of Mr H’s acceptance of my final decision. If 
Creation fails to pay within this timescale, it will also need to pay interest on the total amount, 
calculated daily at 8% simple per year from the notification date. If Creation deducts tax from 
this interest, it should provide Mr H with the appropriate tax certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2979411
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”) haven’t supported a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) about sofas 
she purchased not being of an acceptable standard.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a point of 
sale loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
But here I’m afraid I’m not persuaded Mrs S has provided enough evidence that there was a 
breach of contract or that there was a misrepresentation.
Mrs S says the contract was breached because the goods were not of satisfactory quality. 
She says they weren’t the size she was promised and consequently one of them wouldn’t fit 
through the doors and the remaining sofa is too large for the space it sits in.
I don’t think I have enough evidence to suggest the sofas were a custom fit. Whilst I 
understand Mrs S says she consulted with the supplier and the sofas should have been a 
different size to fit her room and doorways. I don’t have any further evidence of that and CCF 
have explained that those sofas are sold in a standard size; are not made to measure and 
the consumer is responsible for ensuring what they buy will fit. I’m not persuaded there has 
been a breach of contract here.
Mrs S says the sofas were misrepresented to her. She says that the terms and conditions, 
exclusions and deadlines were not explained to her. She also says that insurance was mis 
sold as the terms weren’t explained and she already had insurance.
On the evidence available to me I think it is reasonable to have expected Mrs S to read and 
understand the conditions and the insurance cover, that was also financed through the point 
of sale loan, before she signed the documents. I don’t think there’s evidence that she was 
presented with any false statement and I think the contracts explained the terms accurately.
I can see that the supplier has refunded one sofa that didn’t fit through the doors and, given 
the circumstances, that seems a fair action to take. So, I don’t think there’s evidence that 
CFF were unreasonable when rejecting Mrs S’s section 75 claim and I’m not asking them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2981945
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a 
ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of 
the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs P fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs P from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs P is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mrs P by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs P’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs P in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs P have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mrs P and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mrs P and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs P accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs P has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs P has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs P first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs P’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2982253
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in year 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation made an offer to settle the complaint. But it’s redress offer didn’t take into account 
that Mr B had settled his loan with Creation early by taking out finance with a different 
provider. Mr B felt the offer did not fully compensate him for his losses.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. He explained Creation should take into account the losses Mr B incurred with 
the refinance loan he took with an alternative provider in order to fully compensate him. 
Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right. 
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr B accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation.  
I understand Mr B has settled the loan early, so Creation offered to pay Mr B the difference 
between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest. 
But Mr B has said he settled the loan by refinancing. As our adjudicator explained, because 
Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, and Mr B has supplied evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, I think Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our well-established approach (as described above). I direct that Creation should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-2991485
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in April 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr S £100 for his trouble.
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s decision, and said that it would calculate the amount of 
compensation that was due and get back to her with the figures. That was in June, and we 
have heard nothing from them since, despite the adjudicator repeatedly chasing Creation for 
a response. So in August, the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Creation has accepted the adjudicator’s opinion, I do not consider it necessary to set 
out any findings here. It is enough for me to say that I have checked the evidence and I think 
that my colleague’s decision was in line with our well-established approach, with which 
Creation is familiar. So there is no reason for me to interfere, and I uphold this complaint. 
The purpose of this final decision is to give Mr S a decision which is enforceable in court, 
should the need arise.
There has been an unnecessary delay between July, when Creation might reasonably have 
been expected to provide its redress calculation following its agreement with the 
adjudicator’s decision in June, and December, as I write these words. I think that has 
inconvenienced Mr S, and while I cannot punish Creation for that, I can still take it into 
account in deciding how much compensation it would be fair to award him for his trouble 
(see paragraph DISP 3.5.14R(2) of the FCA Handbook). So I think that £200, rather than 
£100, would better reflect Mr S’s inconvenience.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with simple interest at 
8% a year.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3026343
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr R bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr R’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr R fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr R
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr R’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr R accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr R by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr R’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr R’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R 
have the following options as to how he would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr R has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr R the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr R should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr R’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3026430
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Mr M says his solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and he has 
not received any payments from this scheme. So, if that is the case, I don’t think it’s fair that 
any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3027398
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty sofa.
What happened
In 2020 Mr S purchased a sofa, financed by a fixed sum loan agreement provided by 
Creation. The sofa was delivered in June of that year, and in September Mr S noticed that 
one of the cushions had softened in the middle. He reported this to Creation as a fault, and 
so Creation arranged an inspection by the retailer. The inspection was done, and this found 
no manufacturing fault, only the natural settlement of the cushion interior. Consequently, 
Creation did not uphold Mr S’s claim.
Mr S then brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. He 
accepted the findings in the report, and so he was unable to recommend that Creation take 
any further action. He said that he would reconsider the case if Mr S obtained his own expert 
report.
Mr S did not accept that opinion. He asked for another report to be done. The investigator 
reminded Mr S that he would have to obtain this himself, and referred this case for an 
ombudsman’s decision. Mr S has not replied since then, and the deadline to reply expired 
two weeks ago.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Credit Act, Creation is jointly and severally liable for any manufacturing 
defect in the sofa when it was delivered. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, any fault 
which is detected within six months must be presumed to have been present or developing 
at the time of delivery, unless the contrary is proved. But the problem which faces Mr S here 
is that the inspection found no fault at all, just normal wear and tear.
I have noted that the report is not an independent report: the inspection was conducted by 
the retailer, which would be liable to refund Creation for any sum it had to pay out under 
section 75. Nevertheless, it is the only expert evidence available, and so I think it is still fair 
and reasonable for me to accept what it says. 
Based on the report, I am unable to agree with Mr S that the sofa has a fault.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3032784
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t fully respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in April 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t, and breach of contract 
due to installation issues that allowed water into the property. Mr S incurred costs to have 
the solar panels reinstalled correctly so no further water ingress would occur.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.  She also considered that the damage caused to Mr S’s roof when the panels 
were installed amounted to breach of contract and recommended that Creation should 
reimburse Mr S for the resulting losses. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to 
an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an on-
going additional cost for him.  I do not believe he would have entered into the contract had 
he been aware of the true impact on him. 
I also consider that when Mr S entered into the contract with the installer for panels, he did 
so on the understanding that the work would be carried out with appropriate care and 
attention and that his property would not be damaged by the installation.  All of the evidence 
I’ve seen supports his assertion that his roof was damaged by the installation, which 
amounts to a breach of contract.  Mr S has also helpfully provided a breakdown of the costs 
which were solely the result of the poor installation. 
Mr S told Creation of the installation issues in February 2020, with photos, and a report from 
his builders in January 2021. Having had no further response from Creation, Mr S went 
ahead and had the installation issues rectified, paying for this himself. I think that was 
reasonable, as the longer the issue was left, the more damage was likely to occur to his 
property and the higher the cost of repair. I think Creation had a reasonable opportunity to 
arrange for the installation to be inspected or take other action – given it was told about the 
issue in February 2020 and the repairs weren’t carried out until the following year.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
In addition to this Creation should pay Mr S £13,200, being the cost of the work done to 
rectify the installation issues, plus 8% simple interest per year from the time Mr S paid for 
the work until Creation makes the settlement. This is to compensate Mr S for the time he 
has been without this money.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3034761
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t fully respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
Mr W also mentioned a problem with functioning of the solar panels. But it appears that is 
being dealt with by the warranty insurers. So, I have not looked at this as part of my 
decision, and Mr W will need to complain about that separately if he is unhappy with how his 
claim under the warranty is dealt with. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr W by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr W’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr W has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3037788
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M purchased a sofa from a retailer in October 2019 and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation.
Mr M was unhappy with the quality of the sofa because the cushions went flat and it was 
unconfutable to sit on.
Mr M wasn’t able to resolve things with the retailer, so he raised a claim under section 75 
with Creation. Creation arranged an inspection of the sofa. The inspection report found no 
manufacturing faults and Creation rejected the claim.
Mr M wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. He said there wasn’t enough evidence to show 
that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr M didn’t agree. He said the cushions had started sinking when the sofa was only a few 
months old and by the time he’d been told to fluff up the cushions, the damage had already 
been done.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit  if there’s been a breach of contract. In order to uphold Mr M’s 
complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation, and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 wasn’t fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into 
the contract.
I’ve looked at the inspection report. This says that there isn’t a fault with the sofa, and 
advises that the sofa needs to be regularly dressed to maintain its  shape and appearance.
In order to find that there’s been a breach of contract, I would need to be satisfied that the 
sofa had a fault which made it of unsatisfactory quality. There’s no evidence to suggest that 
the sofa has a fault, so I’m unable to say that there’s been a breach of contract.
I’ve also considered whether there’s been a misrepresentation. Mr M hasn’t said that he was 
given any care advice by the retailer at the point of supply. There’s no evidence that  an 
untrue statement of fact was made about the sofa which induced Mr M to enter into the 
contract.
I understand that Mr M feels frustrated and says that he wasn’t given any care instructions. 
Based on what I’ve seen, Mr M was provided with instructions on how to fluff up the 
cushions by the technician who carried out the inspection. There isn’t any evidence to 
suggest that this hasn’t resolved the issue or that the sofa isn’t of satisfactory quality.
Taking everything into account, I’m unable to say that there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I don’t think that Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining 
the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3039809
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs H bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs H from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs H accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs H by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs H 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs H has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs H the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs H has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs H should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3040877
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that. I understand that 
Mrs B has sold the property where the solar panels were installed.  
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs B accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs B 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs B has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs B the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs B should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs B’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3042756
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (“the CCA”) 
What happened
Mr A was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, Mr A agreed to enter a contract with the installer for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system to his property. To pay for this Mr A also agreed to enter into 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
Mr A later made a claim under section 75 of the CCA. He said that the panels were 
underperforming against what he was promised by the installer. He said the installer had 
confirmed there had been a mistake in the original quote, but then entered administration.  
Mr A wasn’t happy with how Creation had responded to his claim and said he had agreed 
with Creation he would not pay anything on his loan until the matter was resolved, but the 
debt was later sold on to a third party. As a result, his credit report had been adversely 
affected.   
As Mr A was not happy with the response he got from Creation, he brought the complaint to 
our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle the complaint. Creation said it 
had calculated the potential savings and income to Mr A over the term of the loan. It said it 
would restructure the loan so that Mr A would pay no more than this over the loan term. This 
reduced the cost of the loan from £17,858.80 to £6,537.52. Creation gave Mr A four options 
to consider how the new, lower loan could continue. It also offered to pay Mr A £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr A was not willing to accept the offer, as he was still concerned about his credit rating and 
that his debt had been sold to a third party. As Creation did not respond on this point, the 
case was passed to decision. Creation later confirmed that it would buy back the debt and 
amend Mr A’s credit file. 
As Mr A did not accept the offer, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says that during the sales meeting for the solar panels, he was mis-led about the 
benefits of the panels, and this is what induced him into entering into the contract with the 
installer. As Creation have made an offer to resolve the complaint, this decision will deal with 
whether I think that offer to be fair compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services, fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality. In cases like 
this one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair 
and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
I’ve considered if it would be reasonable to put Mr A back into the position, he would have 
been in had there been no misrepresentation. However, here I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the panels from his home. Rather, I think the fair 
outcome here is to put Mr A into a position where the panels are cost neutral over the 
original term of the loan, meaning that he isn’t disadvantaged by any misrepresentation. By 
allowing Mr A to keep the panels I’m satisfied that he will likely benefit from lower electricity 
bills and FIT payments going forward. 
I’ve considered the methodology Creation have submitted to this service to calculate the 
offer they made. The methodology is based on a combination of actual performance and 
estimated future performance on the system. 
When calculating the estimated future benefits Creation has set out that it will use a number 
of assumptions, these include the self-consumption rate, electricity price inflation, the 
degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). I’m of the view that these appear 
reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. In summary I’m satisfied that the 
assumptions used provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation. 
By making the solar panel system cost neutral, or self-funding, Mr A’s monthly payments will 
reduce, this means that he would previously have been paying more each month that he 
should have done. And this means he would have been deprived of any monthly 
overpayment; I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date an 
overpayment was made to the date of settlement.  
Creation has given Mr A four options as to how any over payment and associated interest 
can be used. The original offer provided exact figures based on the loan situation at the time, 
however these will need to be updated to reflect the current situation. However, in principle 
the options are 
1) The overpayments are used to reduce any outstanding balance of the loan and Mr A 
continues to pay the currently monthly payment, and the loan finishes early
2) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan, and Mr A 
pays the new lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term
3) The overpayments are returned to Mr A he continues to pay their current monthly 
loan payments, resulting in the loan finishing early or
4) The loan over payments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new lower monthly loan 
payment until the end of the loan.
If Mr A decides to accept the decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which of 
the four options he would like to accept.  
I am also satisfied that Creation’s offer to buy back the debt from the third party and ensure 
that Mr A’s credit file doesn’t suffer any damage due to the loan to date is fair under the 
circumstances. 
I also consider the proposed award of £100 for the trouble and upset caused to be fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr A’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:
a) Allow Mr A to keep the solar panel system
b) Estimate the potential savings and income to Mr A over the loan term and rework it 
so that he pays no more than this.  Where possible they should use Mr A’s electricity 
bills and FIT statements to do this 
c)
Add 8 % simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made until the date of settlement *
d) Allow Mr A to decide how he would like his overpayment and associated interest to 
be used, using the four options above
e) Take appropriate steps to remedy any negative impact on Mr A’s credit file caused by 
the loan to date, and
f)
Pay Mr A £100 for the trouble and upset caused
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr A how much it has taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a certificate showing this, should he ask for one, so he can claim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3043116
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected the claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“the Act”) in relation to a solar panel system he 
said was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr S is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
In or around May 2016 Mr S was cold called by a company I’ll call “G” to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (“the system”) to be installed at his home.
After being visited by a representative of G, Mr S decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10 year (120 months) fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The 
monthly loan repayments were £109.88. The system was subsequently installed.
In January 2017 Mr S paid off the outstanding Creation loan as the system wasn’t generating 
the benefits he’d expected, and he wanted to reduce his costs. He consolidated this and 
some existing lending by taking out another loan (Loan 2). Loan 2 had a slightly higher 
interest rate but a significantly shorter term (60 months).
In June 2017 the CMC made a claim on Mr S’s behalf under section 75 of the Act. The CMC 
said G’s sales representative had made a number of misrepresentations to Mr S which had 
induced him to enter into the sales contract and finance agreement. In summary the CMC 
said Mr S had been told the system was “self-funding”, but that since it had been installed 
the Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments he’d received and the savings he’d made on his electricity 
had fallen far short of his monthly finance payments.
Creation rejected Mr S’s claim. They didn’t agree that the system had been misrepresented.
Our investigator’s view on misrepresentation
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and upheld Mr S’s complaint. She 
didn’t think the information provided to Mr S about the income and savings he could expect 
from the panels was clear enough for him to realise that what the system generated wouldn’t 
cover the cost of the loan.
To put things right our investigator said Creation should recalculate the loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income generated by the system over the 10-year term of 
the loan so that Mr S pays no more than that. And pay Mr S £100 compensation.
Creation initially didn’t accept this outcome. But our investigator didn’t change her opinion. 
She said G had a responsibility to communicate information to Mr S in a way that was clear, 
fair and not misleading. She later highlighted some comments made by G to Creation which 
suggested the salesperson had told Mr S the cost of the system would be recouped through 
“a combination of all savings and earnings” and that he’d only have to “top up the difference” 
between the benefits and repayments in the “first few years”.
Offer
Creation then made an offer to settle the claim. Creation’s offer was to make the system self-
funding. They calculated that the savings and income Mr S would likely receive from the 
system over the 10-year term of the loan would be £2,722.21. As he’d paid Creation 
£8,981.04 in total, Creation offered him a refund of £6,258.83 plus 8% interest.
The CMC didn’t agree that this fully compensated Mr S because he’d refinanced his 
Creation loan by taking out Loan 2. They said Mr S had incurred a further £2,796.69 in 
interest as a result of Loan 2, meaning he’d actually paid £11,777.73 for the system.
Our investigator’s view on Creation’s offer (August 2020)
Our investigator agreed with the CMC that the cost of Loan 2 should be taken into account. 
Simply put, she said Creation should make sure Mr S pays no more than the savings and 
income he’ll likely receive from the system over the 10-year term of the Creation loan, and 
pay Mr S 8% simple interest per year on each overpayment he’s made until the date 
Creation refunds it. She provided the following detail to inform how the remedy should be 
calculated:

Mr S borrowed £13,185.88 from Creation (including interest and other fees) to pay for 
the solar panels.

Mr S made seven monthly payments of £109.88 (totalling £769.16) before settling the 
Creation loan. He paid £8,981.04 in total.

Creation calculated the total expected benefits from the system over the 10-year term 
of the loan as £2,722.21. Therefore, the monthly payment should’ve been £22.68 
(£2,722.21 divided by 120).

This means that Mr S paid an extra £87.20 each month when paying the Creation 
loan (£610.40 in total).

To compensate him for being out of pocket, Creation should refund this with simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date of each payment until he gets the refund.

Mr S borrowed a further £13,932.60 (including interest and other fees) from another 
lender (Loan 2) – the capital borrowed was £10,392.93.

To settle his Creation loan he’d used 79% of Loan 2 (£8,211.88).

The term of Loan 2 is five years (60 months) and the monthly repayment is £232.21.

79% of the monthly repayment is for the solar panel system (£183.45).

When what’s left of the total expected benefits is adjusted to reflect the term of Loan 
2, the monthly payment for the system should be £42.72. (The total expected benefit 
is £2,722.21. £158.76 has already been accounted for [£22.68 multiplied by seven], 
which means that £2,563.45 is left. The term of Loan 2 is 60 months - £2,563.45 
divided by 60 is £42.72).

This means that Mr S has paid an extra £140.73 each month when he’s made his 
Loan 2 repayments.

To compensate him for being out of pocket, Creation should refund this with simple 
interest at 8% per year from the date of each payment until he gets the refund.
With regard to Mr S’s future Loan 2 repayments, at the point at which our investigator issued 
her view (August 2020) Mr S still had 18 months of payments outstanding and, assuming 
he’d made all his Loan 2 payments, still owed £3,302.10 of what he’d used to pay for the 
solar panel system. So, our investigator said Creation should pay Mr S £2,533.14 leaving 
him with 18 payments of £42.72 left to make (£768.96).
Creation agreed to this methodology in January 2021 and calculated the offer they’d make to 
Mr S as £10,639.35.
Mr S agreed in principle with what the investigator had said but asked to see the calculations 
in full before accepting. Unfortunately, when we asked Creation for a detailed calculation 
what they sent us in July 2021 didn’t appear to match the offer they’d made in January 2021 
and didn’t take into account that Mr S had settled his Creation loan in January 2017 and 
refinanced.
As we received no further calculation from Creation the complaint has come to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Creation have indicated their acceptance of Mr S’s original 
complaint that the system was misrepresented to him at the point of sale. And they’ve 
offered to remedy that with an offer to make the system self-funding. So, instead of 
examining the sale of the system and whether it was misrepresented to Mr S I’ve only 
considered whether, in the circumstances that both parties accept that point, the offer made 
by Creation is fair.
As we’ve been made aware by the CMC that Mr S refinanced the Creation loan in January 
2017 with Loan 2, I find that the first offer made by Creation (a refund of £6,258.83 plus 8% 
interest) didn’t adequately compensate Mr S. This is because it didn’t take into account any 
of the costs Mr S incurred associated with Loan 2.
I think it’s important when considering if this offer is fair, to ensure that Mr S doesn’t 
experience any financial loss as a result of the misrepresentation. Mr S refinanced the 
Creation loan with Loan 2 to reduce his costs because the system was not proving to be 
self-funding as promised. So, I think Creation needs to make sure that, including the 
refinance loan, the consumer pays no more than the benefits he’ll likely get from the system 
over the original loan term (in this case, 10 years).
Putting things right
In line with that approach I agree with what our investigator set out as a fair way of putting 
things right when she provided her view in August 2020. I’ve set out the detail that our 
investigator provided above, and I remain of the view that this detail should inform how the 
remedy is calculated. In summary, Creation should:

Refund the overpayment of £87.20 Mr S paid each month towards the Creation loan.

Add 8% simple interest from the date of each overpayment until Mr S receives his 
refund.

Refund the overpayment of £140.73 Mr S has paid each month towards Loan 2.

Add 8% simple interest from the date of each overpayment until Mr S receives his 
refund.

Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by what happened.
Future payments towards Loan 2
Some time has passed since our investigator issued her second view. At that time Mr S still 
had 18 months to go with his payments towards Loan 2. So, the figures she included relating 
to future payments Mr S would have to make on Loan 2 are now out of date, but I support 
the methodology she used to say how Mr S should be compensated in relation to future 
payments.
Bringing things up to date, Mr S is nearing the end of the 60-month term of Loan 2 in early 
2022. As this is the case, I think Creation should confirm with Mr S how many monthly 
payments he has left to make, and then add to the refund the overpayment portion of each 
of those future payments (i.e. £140.73 for each monthly payment). Creation don’t need to 
add 8% simple interest to this amount as it’s for future payments, not overpayments he’s 
already made and therefore been out of pocket for.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S’s complaint. I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

Refund the overpayment of £87.20 Mr S paid each month towards the Creation loan, 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his 
refund;

Refund the overpayment of £140.73 Mr S has paid each month towards Loan 2, 
adding 8% simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his 
refund;

Pay Mr S an amount of £140.73 for each monthly payment he’s still to make towards 
Loan 2 under the original 60-month agreement;

Pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by what happened; 
and

Provide Mr S with a full calculation of the refund and interest payments.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3043519
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, following a claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act (“the CCA”) 
 
What happened
Ms P was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems.  
Following a sales meeting, she agreed to enter into a contact with the installer for it to supply 
and install a solar panel system.  To pay for this she also agreed to enter into a fixed sum 
loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
Ms P made a claim under section 75 of the CCA. She said the installer had told her the solar 
panels would be “self -funded”, and that the monthly loan repayment costs would be more 
than offset by the feed in tariff (“FIT”) income.  But that hadn’t happened, instead the monthly 
repayments had been much higher that the income. 
As Ms P was unhappy with the response she got from Creation, she brought her complaint 
to our service.
Following our involvement, Creation made an offer to settle the complaint.  Creation took into 
account Ms P’s circumstances and offered to buy back the debt from the debt collectors, 
calculate the benefits that Ms P would have received from the panels until she sold the 
property in January 2019, and write off the balance of the loan. Because Ms P had already 
paid more than the calculated benefits Creation would return the overpayments plus 8 % 
interest on the over payment from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  It also 
offered £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter had caused Ms P.  One of 
our investigators wrote to Ms P and explained they felt the offer was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint.  
Ms P accepted the offer, and case was closed on an informal basis.   Ms P got back in touch 
with this service some months later, as the settlement had not been paid.  Despite the best 
efforts of the investigator and Ms P, that remains the case.  To date Creation has not clearly 
explained why it has not been able to make the settlement offered to resolve this case.   As 
a result, the case has been re-opened and passed to me to make formal determination. The 
investigator has also said that these delays will have caused Ms P further distress and 
recommended an increase in the trouble and upset payment to £400.    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a full review of the file, there seems to be no dispute here on the complaint brought by 
Ms P.  Creation have made an offer of settlement that they felt was fair, and Ms P accepted.  
For some reason, settlement has not been made and therefore the complaint is not resolved. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with the minimum formality.  My role is to 
arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking into account the particular circumstances. 
I agree with the investigator that the offer made by Creation is fair under the circumstances 
of the complaint. 
I’ve also considered the additional distress the delays in settling this matter will have caused 
Ms P.  It’s clear that the financial and emotional impact of this issue dragging on has been 
significant, and as such I consider the payment of £100 for distress and inconvenience 
should be increased to £400 in recognition of this. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Ms P’s complaint should be upheld.  In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Limited, if it has not already done so, to:
a) Buy back the debt from the debt collector.
b) Return to Ms P the overpayments, based on the estimated benefits of the period she 
had the panels, as previously calculated. 
c)
Add 8% interest on this sum from the date the overpayment was made to the date of 
settlement. 
d) Pay Ms P £400 for the trouble and upset caused.  
If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Ms P how much it has taken off.  It should 
also give Ms P a certificate showing this, should she ask for one, so she can claim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3046168
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss J said that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Creation provided the following loan to Miss J:
Date taken
Loan status
Number of monthly 
instalments
Loan 
amount
Approximate  
monthly  
repayment*
March 2018
Outstanding 
48
£10,000
£286.38
Miss J told us that when she applied for this loan, she also had a number of other loans in 
place and she had only recently been released from an ‘IVA’ (an individual voluntary 
arrangement – this is a formal debt solution to repay money owed to creditors). She said she 
was still struggling financially and doesn’t feel Creation checked if she could afford the loan 
or review her spending habits at the time which included gambling. She’s unhappy that 
Creation registered a default when she ran into payment problems and sold the loan to a 
third party - and that it has now sold the loan again after it was returned to the lender. 
Our investigator didn’t uphold Miss J’s complaint. 
Miss J disagreed with our investigator’s view. She mainly said that whilst she understands 
that on the surface it appeared she could afford the repayments, if Creation had checked her 
bank statements (like responsible lenders tend to) it would’ve seen the issues she had, 
especially after having completed an IVA not long before. She told us that if Creation had 
asked a question about gambling she would have answered honestly but it failed to do that 
in her opinion.
Miss J has sent us bank statements and an up to date credit report in support of her 
complaint.
Miss J asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and I’ve kept this in mind when deciding Miss J’s complaint. I’d like to reassure Miss J that 
I’ve looked at the complaint afresh – and I’ve independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. I’ll explain why I say this.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan – in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules don’t say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrower’s credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrower’s overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:

the lower a customer’s income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)

the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)

the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks weren’t carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
would’ve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
should’ve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that can’t be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I’ve thought carefully about what this all means for Miss J’s complaint.
When Miss J applied for this loan, Creation asked her for information about her finances and 
carried out some credit checks. It has sent me a summary of the results it obtained.
Creation recorded Miss J’s salary was around £2,025 per month and I think that was broadly 
about right. I can see from the bank statements Miss J has provided that there was some 
variation in her pay from month to month but her salary in the three months running up to her 
taking out this loan was never less than £1,981. After making allowance for her normal 
monthly spending, including what it saw she owed her other existing creditors, Creation felt 
that the amount of disposable income she had available was ample to cover the monthly 
repayments on its loan. 
The credit checks Creation carried out showed that Miss J had no active county court 
judgements registered within the previous six years and no defaults on her record within the 
last four years. 
It noted that, at worst, she had been three payments in arrears over the course of the 
previous four years but she wasn’t currently in arrears or default – and that had been the 
position for at least the last twelve months.
Miss J says Creation should’ve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her. But I think it’s fair to say that all the information Creation had gathered tended to 
suggest that Miss J seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had 
ongoing money problems or a serious debt problem. It wouldn’t be unusual for someone 
applying for this type of lending to have other debt – and sometimes even an impaired credit 
history. And these wouldn’t necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. I don’t think the amount 
of debt shown on Miss J’s credit checks was excessive having regard to her income or that 
anything else revealed in the credit checks Creation carried out was enough for me to say 
that a responsible lender should’ve realised it needed to find out more before lending or that 
it should have refused the loan application. 
I’d expect Creation to decide Miss J’s lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesn’t usually provide the same level of detail that a person’s own credit 
search will. And it isn’t necessarily up to date – that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when it’s been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrower’s credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. I’m also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that some information Miss J might expect 
to see reflected on a credit check may not have been identified by a credit check done by 
Creation when she applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to lend here – especially as there 
wasn’t anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss J wouldn’t be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. And I don’t think proportionate checks would’ve required 
Creation to probe any more deeply into Miss J’s finances or ask Miss J to prove what she 
was declaring (by requiring her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other 
information sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. 
I have no reason to doubt Miss J when she says she would have responded honestly to a 
direct question about gambling, but this wasn’t something I would necessarily expect a 
responsible lender to enquire into if there was nothing to suggest this might be a particular 
concern. I don’t think anything Creation saw in the information it had in front of it would have 
alerted a responsible lender to think that Miss J’s spending on gambling (or anything else) 
was out of control or that her use of credit showed hallmarks of someone struggling to gain 
control of her debt. And I think it’s fair to say that Miss J was fully engaged in the application 
process and there would have been an opportunity for Miss J to mention this to the lender 
had she wished to alert it to her gambling spending.
I have also kept in mind that Miss J told Creation that she intended to use this loan for ‘debt 
consolidation’ – in other words, to pay off other debt. I think in these circumstances Creation 
was reasonably entitled to take a view that this suggested Miss J was borrowing specifically 
to help her manage her finances more responsibly – and it looked like she ought to be able 
to afford to do that on the figures it worked out. 
I can’t fairly say in this situation that Creation is responsible for adding to Miss J’s debt 
problems if she didn’t use the loan for its stated purpose. I think she could have used the 
loan to help her improve her financial situation. 
In particular, she could’ve saved on credit card interest as it looks like she might have been 
making only minimum monthly repayments to her cards which adds very significantly to the 
long term cost of that credit – repayments at that level are insufficient to make any 
meaningful inroads into card balances. 
I’m sorry that Miss J has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has 
proved difficult for her. I accept that Miss J’s actual circumstances possibly weren’t fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Creation obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Miss J. And I haven’t seen enough to make me think that Creation acted towards Miss J in 
any other way that wasn’t fair and reasonable. Creation seems to me to have responded 
fairly and reasonably when Miss J had problems keeping up with the loan monthly 
repayments. And I can’t fairly say it wasn’t entitled to sell her debt or that it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it chose to do this.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss J and I’m sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why I’ve reached these conclusions. 
I expect Creation to continue to work constructively with Miss J and to treat her positively 
and sympathetically as long as she is continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would 
encourage Miss J to provide full details of her financial situation to the new debt owner if she 
still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on the loan. And if Miss J would like help to 
manage her finances there’s more information about how to get free debt advice and other 
support on our website – or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold Miss J’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3049047
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015.The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S has added that after he was initially given a quote, the supplier reduced the cost of the 
solar panels by £1,000 and this is the price he accepted. But he says the finance agreement 
with Creation was wrongly processed with the higher figure. So, he also feels he was 
overcharged. 
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought the loan had been 
wrongly set up for the higher amount and felt that Creation should redress this. She also 
thought that the benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress 
would be for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was 
passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. Firstly, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
I can also see that Mr S was initially given a quote for £7,995 for the cost of the solar panels. 
But he’s then submitted another quote which is dated approximately two weeks after the 
original quote for a lower figure of £6,995. The invoice given to Mr S by the supplier, also 
shows the supplier received £6,995. This I think strongly supports Mr S’s testimony, that the 
price agreed with the supplier was for £6,995 – but the annual statement from Creation 
indicates it set up the loan for £7,995. I haven’t seen a credit agreement as neither Creation 
nor Mr S have provided a copy. But If Mr S was charged £7,995 – then I think he has been 
charged more than what he agreed to pay for these Solar Panels.  
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think Creation should make two adjustments to this loan 
agreement. It should first, restructure this loan, as if the total amount borrowed was £6,995 
(if indeed he was charged £7,995). Any amounts he has overpaid, should be refunded and I 
would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement.
Then, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr S’s complaint 
for Creation to put things right by making a second adjustment. This is by recalculating the 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10 - year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr S the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr S should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3053334
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Ms F bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Ms F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms F fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Ms F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms F from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that. I understand Ms F 
has recently advised she no longer lives at the address where the solar panels were 
installed. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms F is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Ms F accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Ms F by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Ms F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Ms F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT)
scheme. But Ms F’s solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and she has not
received any payments from this scheme. So, in these circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair
that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms F have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Ms F and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms F and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms F accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Ms F has settled the loan, Creation should pay Ms F the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Ms F has settled the loan by refinancing, Ms F should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms F receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms F receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3054144
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms P has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Ms P bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Ms P, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms P was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms P fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms P from the solar 
panels over the ten-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Ms P is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Ms P by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Ms P’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Ms P in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms P have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Ms P and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Ms P and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms P accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Ms P has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Ms P has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms P receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms P receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms P first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms P’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3057257
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr S the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr S should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3060201
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr D into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation responded to the complaint to say it thought the solar panels were self-funding over 
the term of the loan but offered £100 compensation in recognition of inconvenience caused 
by the delay in its response to the complaint.
Mr D’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Creation’s calculations referred to in its final response letter appear to be based on incorrect 
figures for the purchase price of the system, the monthly loan repayment and the total 
amount repayable. Using the correct figures for Mr D’s system and loan it is clear to me that 
the solar panels will not be self-funding over the ten-year loan term.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr D’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr D from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr D is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr D by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr D’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But Mr D’s says his solar panels were not registered for the FIT scheme and he has 
not received any payments from this. So, if that is the case, I don’t think it’s fair that any FIT 
payments are included in the recalculation.
Mr D should have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be 
used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr D and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr D accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr D has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr D has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr D paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr D paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr D’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3063052
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in February 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr A into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation offered to settle Mr A’s claim (without accepting liability), and offered to refund him, 
with interest, in line with our service’s usual approach in such cases. It also offered him 
another £100 for his trouble. However, Mr A said that he had paid a deposit of £2,250, and 
that Creation’s offer did not take this into account. He asked that this be added to the refund.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He upheld this complaint and 
recommended that the deposit be added to Creation’s offer.
Creation accepted that decision in principle, and just asked for evidence that the deposit had 
indeed been paid, since it had no record of any deposit and it wasn’t mentioned in the loan 
documentation. But by the time Creation responded, this case had already been referred for 
an ombudsman’s decision, because the investigator had not heard from them.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen clear evidence that Mr A did pay a deposit of £2,250. I shared this evidence with 
Creation, but Creation did not reply by the deadline I had set. This is probably just because 
they are very busy, but I think it would be better if I issued a decision now instead of waiting 
any longer.
I have seen an invoice from the installer to Mr A, dated 10 March 2018, for £10,850.01. It is 
marked “paid in full with thanks.” The loan agreement, dated 26 February 2018, states that 
the amount of credit provided is £8,600; the difference between those two figures is 
£2,250.01. And I have seen a bank statement with Mr A’s name on it, showing that on 27 
February 2018 he paid £2,250 to the installer. So I am satisfied that he did pay a deposit of 
£2,250, and that he would not have done so if the panels had not been mis-sold.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by paying Mr A an amount 
equal to the deposit of £2,250, with interest on this amount at 8% a year, from 27 February 
2018 to the date of settlement.
Creation should also recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings 
and income to Mr A from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no 
more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan 
has ended.
Creation have already performed this calculation (as set out in its final response letter dated 
18 January 2021). This shows that Mr A has been paying more than he should have, so 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly by restructuring the loan. They should 
recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral 
over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
In its offer, Creation said it would not pay interest beyond 13 March 2021, which I think 
would have been reasonable but for the fact that the deposit was not included in the offer. 
So I think that the interest on the overpayments should be paid up to the date of settlement 
as well.
I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
I also direct that Creation must pay Mr A the £100 it has offered him as compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3069030
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd miscalculated her outstanding loan 
balance, chased her for payments after she had agreed an arrangement to pay with a debt 
collection agency, falsely accused her of ending two phone calls, and referred her debt to 
another agency while her complaint was still outstanding.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss M entered a running account credit agreement with Creation, and 
used it to purchase goods from a third party. The loan was to be repaid over 24 months. 
Miss M set up a direct debit, but some of the payments were returned, and no payments 
were made at all between May and October 2019. In October 2019 the debt was passed to a 
collection agency and a repayment plan was agreed, but Miss M complains that Creation still 
continued to try to take payments from her. The debt was later brought back to Creation in 
June 2020, but Mrs M disputed the amount which Creation said was still outstanding. She 
said Creation was trying to overcharge her by over £90.
Miss M phoned Creation to try to sort this out, but she says two phone calls were abruptly 
ended by the call handlers. She was later told that these calls had been ended by her, which 
she denies. She also says one of the call handlers agreed with her own figure for the 
outstanding balance. She complained, and while her complaint was still outstanding her debt 
was passed to a new collection agency.
Creation apologised to Miss B for its staff having told her that she had hung up on the two 
calls. It said that both of the call handlers had put Miss B on hold, and when they had 
returned to the calls they had found that the calls had been disconnected at Miss B’s end, 
which they had summarised as her having hung up. Creation accepted that she had not 
hung up, and apologised for using that term. But it did not uphold any other aspect of her 
complaint. It said that interest is charged daily, and since not all of the monthly payments 
had been made on time, extra interest had been charged on the arrears and on the returned 
direct debit fees, which accounted for the balance being higher than Miss B had expected.
After Miss B complained to our service, Creation said that it had been entitled to refer her 
debt to an agency whether or not there was a complaint outstanding. This would not interfere 
with the handling of her complaint or affect the outcome.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Creation had been entitled to charge 
Miss B extra interest, and he referred her to the clause in the credit agreement which said 
this would happen. Miss B did not accept this opinion, and she pointed out that nobody had 
addressed her complaint about Creation and Moorcroft both trying to take payments from 
her over the same period. She asked for an ombudsman to review her case.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding balance
I have checked Creation’s balance figure myself, and it is accurate. The outstanding balance 
includes extra interest which Miss B did not take into account. (Also, Miss B’s own 
calculations were wrong, as I will explain.)
The cost of the goods Miss B purchased was £699.99. The total opening balance is given in 
the credit agreement as £840.96. I have seen another figure for that in another document, 
£841.04, but this cannot be right, because both documents agree that the loan was to be 
repaid over 24 monthly payments of £35.04, and that amount times 24 is exactly £840.96. 
So I have used the lower figure for the opening balance.
The total charge for credit is therefore the difference between £699.99 and £840.96, which is 
£140.97.
However, I have added up all of the interest which Creation charged Miss B, and it comes to 
a total of £263.73. That means Creation has charged her £122.76 in additional interest as a 
result of the returned direct debits, which it was entitled to do under the terms of the credit 
agreement.
Creation also charged Miss B a total of £110 in fees, but two fees of £30 each were refunded 
after she phoned Creation to explain her situation. Creation also credited another £50 to her 
account; this might not have been a refund of fees because it has been recorded differently 
on her payment history. Assuming it was not a refund of the remaining fees, Creation 
therefore charged her a total of £172.76 in addition to the original amount repayable. This 
means that the new total amount repayable is £1,013.72.
Not counting the returned payments, Miss B made payments adding up to £458.75. Adding 
the £50 which Creation credited to her account makes £508.75. The difference between 
£1,013.72 and £508.75 is £504.97, which is the same arrears figure that appears in 
Creation’s payment history. I am therefore satisfied that it is accurate. (It is equal to the 
figure of £484.78 which Creation gave Miss B in June 2020, plus three more months’ interest 
charged since then (£20.19), before the account was transferred to the second collection 
agency.)
In Miss B’s own calculations, she did not include the additional interest. (She also left out the 
£60 of refunds, and counted the £50 credit twice.) I don’t know why one of Creation’s call 
handlers still agreed with her figure for the outstanding balance, but I’m afraid that they were 
wrong.
Creation and the collection agency
As I’ve said, in October 2019 a collection agency was instructed to collect the debt. This 
continued until May 2020, when the agency transferred the debt back to Creation. I have 
looked at her payment history, and it shows that the last direct debit payment she made to 
Creation before October 2019 was in May 2019 – not that there were direct debits which 
were returned, but there were no payments at all. Then in October 2019 she resumed 
making payments to Creation by direct debit. This means that she must have cancelled her 
original direct debit and then set up a new one to Creation instead of to the collection 
agency.
Creation’s account notes show that the only contact it had with Miss M during that period 
(May to October 2019) was a phone call she made to Creation in November 2019 (and 
indeed Miss M has not suggested that Creation was writing to her or calling her during that 
period, only that Creation was trying to take her money). The call handler’s note of that 
phone call states that he or she told Miss M that her account was now with the agency and 
that she should be sending her payments to the agency, not to Creation.
The payments still continued until February 2020, and then stopped, and the payments from 
December 2019 had each been all returned. In May 2020 the agency returned the debt to 
Creation, and in June Creation wrote to Miss M, which was its first contact with her since the 
call in November. So Creation did not pro-actively contact Miss M while the debt was with 
the agency, and it took no action to collect money from her other than to receive her direct 
debits, which continued to happen after it had told her to stop. So I cannot uphold Miss M’s 
complaint about this issue.
Other matters
Creation was entitled to refer the debt to a second collection agency, and since this did not 
affect her complaint, no disadvantage was caused to her by doing so.
Finally, I think that Creation’s apology is fair redress for having suggested that Miss M had 
hung up on the two phone calls, and that the payment of compensation for that issue is not 
necessary.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3069048
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in August 2014. The purchase was funded by loan 
from Creation (“loan 1”), and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
In 2016, Mr B refinanced the loan. His wife, who I will call Mrs B, took out a second loan with 
Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading as Tesco Bank) (“loan 2”), and Mr B used the loan 
proceeds to repay Creation in November of that year. Mrs B subsequently refinanced again 
with another loan from Tesco Bank (“loan 3”); this loan also included some new borrowing.
When Mr B complained to Creation that the panels had been mis-sold to him, Creation 
offered to settle his claim (without admitting liability) by making the solar panels self-funding 
over the original ten-year term of loan 1. But Mr B was not satisfied with that offer, because it 
did not take the refinancing into account. He brought this complaint to our service, 
represented by his solicitor.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be to ensure that Mr B 
and his wife would pay no more than what the benefits of the panels would be over ten 
years, taking the refinancing into account. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr B 
£100 for his trouble.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point when looking at complaints like these is to ensure the consumer doesn’t 
experience any financial loss as a result of the mis-representation. Since Mrs B was not a 
customer of Creation (and so is not eligible to complain about Creation in her own right), and 
the Tesco Bank loans were in her name, I have considered whether it is fair to take the 
refinancing into account. But since she and her husband form part of the same household, 
and they have explained that the only reason the refinancing was done in her name was 
because she usually handles their banking, I think it would be artificial to treat the refinancing 
as having nothing to do with him. So I agree that the compensation needs to take the 
refinancing into account, along the lines set out by our adjudicator.
I’m satisfied by the evidence I’ve seen (see below) that loan 2 was used to refinance loan 1, 
and that loan 3 was used in part to finance loan 2.
Putting things right
In simple terms, I think the fairest way for Creation to put things right is to:
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund to Mr B the extra his wife paid with the refinanced loans (loans 2 and 3).
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding.
6.
Pay Mr B £100 for his trouble.
Step 3 above shall only apply to so much of loan 3 as was used to pay off loan 2.
To allow Creation to carry out this calculation, Mr B has provided:

a copy of each of the Tesco Bank loan agreements,

a full statement showing all repayments made to each of these loans.
I will share this evidence with Creation.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3076224
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to her the cost of an 
airwrap that has incorrectly been charged to her credit plan.
What happened
Ms F ordered an airwrap and an air purifier from a retailer in December 2020 at a total cost 
of £1,003 that was charged to her flexible credit plan with Creation Consumer Finance. She 
cancelled the order for the airwrap and an air purifier was delivered to her the next day. She 
expected the cost of the airwrap, which was £449, to be credited to her plan but the retailer 
says that it had sent her a second air purifier by mistake and that two air purifiers had been 
delivered to Ms F.
When the £449 hadn’t been credited to her plan, Ms F contacted the retailer and it said that 
she could either keep the second air purifier and it would charge £100 to her account or she 
could return it and it would credit £449 to her plan. Ms F said that she hadn’t received two air 
purifiers but the retailer provided two tracking numbers and a photograph taken by the 
delivery company to show that two air purifiers had been delivered to her.
Ms F wasn’t satisfied with that response so she complained to this service and she said that 
the second air purifier shown in the photo belonged to a friend and she had borrowed it to 
see if it was suitable. She provided a copy of a receipt which she says was for her friend’s 
purchase of an air purifier.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that Ms F’s complaint should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that the retailer had provided enough evidence to show that two air purifiers were 
delivered to Ms F on the same day and that payment for both needed to remain on Ms F’s 
credit plan. 
Ms F has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Ms F paid for the goods using a credit plan with Creation Consumer Finance so her 
complaint to this service is about the way that it has dealt with her credit plan and she 
has an equal right to claim against the retailer or Creation Consumer Finance for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer;

in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;

the retailer has provided two tracking numbers and a photograph taken by the 
delivery company to show that two air purifiers had been delivered to Ms F;

Ms F says that she didn’t receive two air purifiers from the retailer and that the 
second air purifier shown in the photo belonged to a friend and she had borrowed it 
to see if it was suitable;

she’s provided a copy of a receipt which she says was for her friend’s purchase of an 
air purifier – but that receipt is from an IT services company and I’ve seen nothing on 
its website to show that its business includes selling air purifiers;

I consider it to be more likely than not that Ms F received two air purifiers from the 
retailer and I’m not persuaded that it was unfair or unreasonable for it to require her 
to return one of the air purifiers before it credited the £449 for the air wrap to her 
plan;

the retailer has clearly made errors in dealing with Ms F’s order – it sent her a second 
air purifier that she hadn’t ordered and I don’t consider that the explanations that it’s 
given to Ms F have been as clear as they should have been – but I’m not persuaded 
that those errors are enough to justify an award of compensation by Creation 
Consumer Finance to Ms F in these circumstances; and

I sympathise with Ms F for the issues that those errors have caused her, but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance 
has acted incorrectly or that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to credit 
£449 to Ms F’s plan, to pay her any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Ms F’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3077482
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L has complained that his application for credit was declined by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Creation).
What happened
Mr L made an application to Creation for finance in October 2020 for the purchase of a bed. 
Creation declined Mr L’s application and when he asked why, the business referred him to a 
credit reference agency. Mr L is not happy that his application was declined and says he can 
see no reason why his application was not approved.
Our investigator looked into Mr L’s concerns and didn’t think his complaint should be upheld. 
They thought that Creation had dealt with Mr L’s application properly and it was for individual 
lenders to decide whether they wanted to lend.
Mr L didn’t agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked carefully at everything that Mr L has provided, and I’ve considered the 
information supplied by the business.
I can understand how disappointing it must have been for Mr L to have his application for 
credit rejected and why he is worried about future applications.
As the investigator has explained to Mr L, this service isn’t able to tell business who they 
should lend to. Creation is entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it wants to 
lend to Mr L. 
Creation does not have to give Mr L a specific reason why it refused his application and 
lenders generally keep their lending decisions confidential to protect the scoring system. I 
can’t say that Creation has made a mistake when declining the application.
I do understand that my decision will be a disappointment to Mr L but based on the 
information I have seen, I am unable to conclude that Creation has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3081095
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms D complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly when they 
provided her with a loan. She also thinks her repayments haven’t been applied to her 
account correctly, Creation were unsupportive of her financial situation and she is unhappy 
that her loan details were provided to a third party.
What happened
Ms D took a loan with Creation for £15,000 in early 2015. 
Ms D said that in May 2019, she paid her usual repayment of £341.95 although, at the time, 
she was struggling financially. On 17 June 2019, she emailed Creation to explain her 
finances were tight as she had to cover the funeral costs of a relative. She said Creation 
replied on 24 June 2019 confirming they’d made a note of this on her account. Ms D emailed 
Creation again on 20 August 2019 advising them she would make a payment of £341.95 on 
15 September 2019 and hoped to maintain payments after that. 
Ms D said she received an email from Creation’s legal advisers at the end of August 2019 
requesting that missed payments were brought up to date. She said they included a 
transaction statement showing she hadn’t made a payment in the previous period.  She 
believed this wasn’t right as she’d made a payment in May 2019. 
Ms D said she then made a payment of £341.95 on 5 September 2019.
Ms D didn’t think that Creation had acted fairly here. She said she’d told them about her 
financial situation, and they needed to act reasonably in her circumstances. She also 
thought that Creation had breached her data protection rights by providing her personal 
account information to their legal advisors without her permission.
So, Ms D wrote to Creation in September 2019 to raise a complaint about her concerns. She 
also said Creation had acted irresponsibly in first agreeing the loan.
Creation responded to Ms D’s complaint in November 2019. But they didn’t agree they’d 
done anything wrong. They said Ms D had already complained to them in 2017 about 
irresponsibly agreeing to the loan. They said that they’d already addressed this in their 
response in February 2018.
They also explained that her debt had been transferred to another party in December 2017 
before being returned to them in July 2018. They said that Ms D had explained to them she 
was experiencing financial difficulties and they wrote to her in February 2019 about this. 
They said they passed her account to their legal advisors in August 2019 when she didn’t 
respond to them.
Ms D wasn’t happy with Creation’s response to her complaint. So, she referred matters to 
this service. One of our investigators looked into Ms D’s complaint. She didn’t think that 
Creation had acted unfairly or done anything wrong. She also said that Ms D’s suggestion of 
irresponsible lending had previously been looked at by this service and a final decision 
issued. This aspect couldn’t be considered again.
Ms D didn’t agree with our investigator’s findings. She asked that her complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I want to clarify that Ms D’s first complaint that Creation acted irresponsibly 
when they originally agreed to lend to her was previously addressed and responded to by 
Creation. That complaint was referred to this service and a final decision was issued in 2019. 
So, I’m unable to look at this aspect further.
I’ve reviewed Ms D’s loan statement information. It appears the loan was first agreed and 
taken in early 2015. In April 2016, Ms D cancelled her loan repayment direct debit 
instruction. She started to make manual repayments to her loan instead. Repayments 
appear to then stop in May 2017 and in September 2017 Ms D submitted her first complaint 
to Creation. 
From what I’ve seen, it appears Ms D was no longer making payments or communicating 
with Creation about her financial situation. So, in December 2017, Creation passed her 
account to a debt collection agency. I believe they were entitled to do that here. I’ve not been 
provided with any information to confirm what, if any, communication there was between 
Creation, Ms D or the debt collection agency. But given this period coincided with when Ms 
D’s complaint was being investigated by Creation, and then this service, I can appreciate 
why that might be. Creation said Ms D’s account was returned to them by the debt collection 
agency in July 2018.
This service issued a Final Decision about Ms D’s first complaint in January 2019. Creation 
then wrote to Ms D asking her to contact them about her ongoing financial situation. They 
were aware she’d been experiencing financial difficulties. But Creation say they didn’t 
receive a response from Ms D. Her manual repayments restarted at that point and continued 
until May 2019.
Following Ms D’s email to Creation in June 2019, her payments stopped again. So, given the 
previously missed payments and Ms D’s lack of response to Creations invitation to discuss 
her situation in February 2019, Creation decided to refer her account to their legal advisors. I 
believe Creation were entitled to do that here. Their lending agreement made specific 
provision permitting them to take legal action to recover the debt in the event of a default. Ms 
D had missed payments and failed to discuss her current situation with Creation in detail. As 
this constitutes a default, I can’t fairly say that Creation did anything wrong in appointing their 
legal advisors.
In the absence of realistic proposals to repay the outstanding debt, Creation’s legal advisors 
applied to the court to issue a County Court Judgment (CCJ). Again, they were entitled to do 
that on Creation’s behalf. 
Ms D has challenged the amount of the judgment. This service can consider an act or 
omission that occurred before the judgment, as long as it arises from a regulated activity. As 
the loan is a regulated credit agreement, I can consider any outstanding issues not already 
consider within the judgement. However, as the amount of the debt was presented and 
proven in the court and is, therefore, included within their judgment, it has already been the 
subject of court proceedings. So, this service is unable to consider this aspect of Ms D’s 
complaint.
In conclusion, while I appreciate Ms D’s strength of feeling here, I can’t reasonably say that 
Creation have acted unfairly or done anything wrong here. As a result of payments missed, 
while Creation made attempts to discuss the situation with Ms D, an agreement couldn’t be 
reached. So, I believe they were entitled to take the steps they did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Ms D’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3082393
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains about the interest that’s been applied to his credit account with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited.
What happened
Mr M entered into a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he electronically 
signed in February 2020 to pay £1,374.98 for a television on “buy now – pay later” terms. He 
didn’t pay £1,374.98 by the offer end date in February 2021 so he became liable to pay 24 
monthly payments of £89.46, staring in March 2021. He complained to Creation Consumer 
Finance that he’d not been notified that it would be applying interest. It said that he’d signed 
the agreement which outlined the special offer end date and that he’d received two 
reminders before the offer ended in his online account (as he’d requested paperless 
statement delivery) but he hadn’t made a payment before the required date so interest had 
been applied.
Mr M wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that the agreement was clear 
and contained the correct information, and that Creation Consumer Finance sent enough 
warning about the end of the “buy now – pay later” period to fulfil its obligations. 
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that Creation 
Consumer Finance was required to remind him eight and four weeks before the offer ended 
but didn’t do so, he can’t afford the payments as he’s been on furlough and that Creation 
Consumer Finance has acted unfairly.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Mr M bought a television in February 2020 and entered into a credit agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance to pay for it on “buy now – pay later” terms;

the agreement included an information statement which said: “The Buy Now Pay 
Later period for your [television] is due to end on [specified date in February 2021]. 
Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the 
payments do not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £1,374.98 by this date 
you won’t be charged any interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or 
reduce the credit amount due, you will have to make monthly payments of £89.46 
starting on [specified date in March 2021]”;

Creation Consumer Finance says that Mr M had asked for paperless statement 
delivery so statements were provided to his online account in December 2020 and 
January 2021 which showed that the “buy now – pay later” special offer was due to 
end on the specified date in February 2021 and that monthly payments would 
become due from March 2021;

it has also provided evidence to show that Mr M viewed the December 2020 
statement in his online account in January 2021, before the special offer ended;

I consider that the “buy now - pay later” terms were clearly set out in the agreement 
and were accepted by Mr M, and that he ought reasonably to have known that he 
had to pay for the television before February 2021 to avoid interest being applied to 
his account;

I also consider that Creation Consumer Finance provided him with appropriate 
reminders that the special offer was ending and I’m not persuaded that it was 
required to provide him with any more information about the offer ending;

I don’t consider that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer 
Finance has acted incorrectly or unfairly in these circumstances;

Mr M says that he can’t afford the monthly payments but I’ve seen no evidence to 
show that he contacted Creation Consumer Finance about his financial difficulties – if 
he’s experiencing financial difficulties and can’t afford the monthly payments, I 
suggest that he contacts Creation Consumer Finance to explain those difficulties and 
it’s required to respond to them positively and sympathetically; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Creation Consumer Finance to waive the interest payable under the credit 
agreement, to reduce the monthly payments that Mr M is required to make, to pay 
him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3084584
--------------------------

The complaint
 Miss L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (CCFL) were irresponsible in 
approving her loan application for £9,900.
What happened
 On 5 January 2018 CCFL approved Miss L’s online loan application. She was given a loan 
for £9,900 over a 60-month term at 14.9% APR. At the point of application Miss L’s annual 
gross salary was £23,707 (net £16,448) although she told CCFL it was £18,000 per year net. 
She was living with her parents. She had no dependants. Miss L said that the purpose of the 
loan was to consolidate other debt. Miss L told this service that she had long term debt of 
£18,348 and short-term credit/store card debt of £13,116, that being within her credit limit of 
£15,450. She feels that in CCFL giving her this loan it made her financial position worse not 
better and that had CCFL carried out appropriate checks it would have realised that she 
could not afford the loan.
CCFL said that her application was not met with any ‘decline’ or ‘refer’ indicators, and that 
there were no defaults in the previous four years and no recorded County Court Judgments 
(CCJs) in the previous six years. CCFL said Miss L comfortably passed their internal 
application criteria and had a good internal credit score. CCFL assessed the loan as 
affordable noting that Miss L had one loan elsewhere with an outstanding balance of 
£17,680 and a £361 monthly repayment, and no mortgage commitment. As such it did not 
consider that it had behaved irresponsibly and rejected Miss L’s complaint.
Miss L was unhappy with CCFL’s final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that CCFL hadn’t carried out 
sufficient checks and in fact Miss L had been in a significant amount of debt at the time of 
her application If proportionate and reasonable checks been carried out, the investigator 
thought CCFL would have not lent to Miss L. CCFL didn’t agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I invited the parties to let me have any further comments and evidence in response to my 
Provisional Decision, if they so wished, by 29 September. Miss L responded with nothing 
further to add. CCFL did not respond. In the circumstances I have received no further 
evidence or comments which lead me to change my Provisional Decision, which I repeat 
below.
We’ve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And I’ve considered this approach when deciding Miss L’s complaint. When someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I consider whether the lender 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that their borrower 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. And if reasonable and proportionate 
checks weren’t carried out, I think about whether the loan would’ve been approved if the 
checks had been done. I also consider if the lending decision was fair and if the lender acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in any other way. 
The Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA) guidance at the time Miss L took this loan in 2018 
can be found in the FCA handbook at the section marked CONC 5.2. This section provides 
that before making a regulated credit agreement (as was the case here) a business such as 
CCFL was required to undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness of its customer, 
meaning that it was required to consider;

the potential that the loan commitment could adversely impact on Miss L’s financial 
situation taking into account the information of which it was aware at the time, and 

the ability of Miss L to make repayments as they fell due over the life of the loan. 
Further, the assessment had to be based on sufficient information from the customer, where 
appropriate, and a credit reference agency, where necessary. CONC 5.2.4(2) said that a 
business should consider what is appropriate taking into account the type and amount of the 
credit and the risks to the customer of the credit not being sustainable. And CONC 5.2.4(3) 
gives an indication of what a lender might (my emphasis) look at in its creditworthiness 
assessment depending on the circumstances, which could include some or all of the 
following:-

its record of previous dealings; 

evidence of income; 

evidence of expenditure; 

a credit score; 

a credit reference agency report; and 

information provided by the customer.
In this complaint CCFL haven’t been able to provide a copy of Miss L’s full credit file they 
used from January 2018, but Miss L has been able to supply a copy herself, albeit she 
obtained that at a later date. Her report does show the large loan which CCFL saw on their 
report, but it also shows she had five active credit cards with a combined balance of around 
£13,000 out of a credit limit of £15,450. CCFL have confirmed they knew Miss L had credit 
card debt. But Miss L didn’t disclose this credit card debt when she made her application. In 
my view this inconsistency ought to have been sufficient to trigger further checks by CCFL 
because it should have been apparent that they didn’t have accurate data. 
So, although CCFL’s checks showed Miss L had no defaults for the previous four years and 
no CCJ’s recorded in the last six years; that her internal credit score was good, and she 
passed CCFL’s affordability test. And although Miss L had no mortgage commitment and 
was living with her parents, which necessarily would have meant her disposable income was 
higher than it would have been had she been living independently, if further checks had 
been carried out CCFL would have realised that the loan was not affordable for her. 
Whilst I acknowledge that there is no obligation for a lender to check an applicant’s bank 
statements, if CCFL had carried out further checks as I feel it ought, and if it had obtained 
her banks statements, which would have been reasonable and proportionate, it would have 
seen a lot of regular payments. 
These regular payments alone amounted to £1,119.32 as she had the loan payment of £361 
per month to Tesco, a car payment of £260 per month, BT £49.48 per month, DVLA £10.06 
per month, EJ L £100 per month, Boots £19 per month, Sky £52 per month, Nationwide 
Credit Card £30 per month, H3G (mobile phone I think) £15 & £19 per month, Creation 
£28.78 per month, MBNA £40 & £75 per month, Barclaycard £60 per month. In addition, 
there were multiple direct debits to PayPal of small individual amounts. This must be set 
against her net monthly income of £1,370.66 and also that she had other day to day 
expenditure for necessary items. 
Miss L has confirmed that she did indeed use the loan to pay off existing debt although it 
was not enough to satisfy all her debt, and within a few months two of her credit cards had 
large balances on them again. I know that Miss L maintained payments for 18 months but 
that doesn’t of itself signify affordability. I also note that when CCFL initially responded to 
Miss L after she had made her application, it was clarifying with her the amount of the loan 
she was requesting since she had indicated she was interested in a higher value loan of 
£23,000. Importantly, CCFL told her that if she wanted the higher loan she would need to 
provide further evidence in the form of her net monthly income and provide a copy of her last 
wage slip together with a bank statement. This indicates to me that CCFL were clearly alive 
to the possibility of making further checks in the form of obtaining bank statement should the 
circumstances require it.
Putting things right
 In summary, I agree with our investigator’s view that Miss L was in significant debt prior to 
the grant of this loan by CCFL and that made it appropriate for CCFL to carry out further 
checks. The checks actually carried out were not proportionate given the value of the loan 
and its duration. If further checks had been done then the extent of Miss L’s debt would have 
been better understood and CCFL would have been able to see that the loan was not 
affordable or sustainable given Miss L’s high outgoings.
I also agree with our investigator’s view as to resolution which I have set out below. I don’t 
think that CCFL should refund the amount borrowed since Miss L has clearly had the benefit 
of the money in reducing her old debts. As this debt has been sold on CCFL should buy the 
debt back if that is possible. If it is not then CCFL should liaise with the debt owner to 
achieve the following outcome. 

Refund all interest and charges applied to the loan. If this refund results in an 
overpayment to the loan, then it should pay that overpayment to Miss L. 

CCFL should also add 8% simple interest per year on any overpayment amount. This 
should be calculated from the date Miss L would have repaid the loan (if no interest 
or charges had been added) to the date of settlement. 

Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss L’s credit file.
My final decision
 Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should refund all interest and charges applied to the loan. If 
this refund results in an overpayment to the loan, then it should pay that overpayment to 
Miss L. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also add 8% simple interest per year on any 
overpayment amount it pays to Miss L. This should be calculated from the date Miss L would 
have repaid the loan (if no interest or charges had been added) to the date of settlement. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also remove any adverse information recorded on 
Miss L’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3084970
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected 
their claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr and Mrs H bought solar panels for their home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs H into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr and Mrs H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs H, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs H was not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr and Mrs H fairly and they lost out because of what 
Creation did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs H 
from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs H are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have Creation needs to reimburse Mr and Mrs H accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs H by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr and Mrs H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs H in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs H’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mr and Mrs H have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be 
used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs H and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs H and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs H accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept
If Mr and Mrs H have settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr and Mrs H the difference 
between what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs H have settled the loan by refinancing, Mr and Mrs H should supply evidence 
of the refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs H receive their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs H receive their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr and Mrs H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr and Mrs H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3091913
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr B accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr B the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr B should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3093879
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about the way that a refund for goods that he paid for using credit provided 
by Creation Consumer Finance Limited has been dealt with.
What happened
Mr A used a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, that he electronically signed 
in August 2018, to pay a total of £3,186.57 for a television, a sound bar and some related 
items. He returned the sound bar to the retailer in December 2018 and it refunded the 
£199.99 that he’d paid for it, and a further £170, to his credit card. He complained to the 
retailer in September 2020 that the credit for the sound bar hadn’t been taken off his credit 
agreement.
The retailer said that a refund for the sound bar had been made to Mr A’s credit card so 
wouldn’t also be removed from his credit agreement but it said that it was happy for him to 
keep the extra £170 that had been refunded to him by mistake (which it said would cover the 
interest that he would have been charged on the sound bar) and it offered him £50 
compensation for the poor service that he’d received in store. 
Mr A wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that the retailer had been fair 
and handled Mr A’s complaint in a reasonable manner. Mr A has asked for his complaint to 
be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the £170 was for the poor service of the 
fitting of the television (which was originally £299) and he didn’t receive the £50 
compensation so he’s still lost interest, which he wasn’t made aware of, and he’s been 
caused inconvenience by what he had to go through.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

the retailer has provided evidence to show it refunded the cost of the sound bar to 
Mr A’s credit card and that Mr A also received a further refund of £170 which was 
made in error – Mr A says that the £170 was compensation for the poor service that 
he’d received relating to the fitting of the television – but he’s not provided any other 
evidence to show that it was paid to him as compensation and the retailer says that it 
has no record of compensation of £170 being agreed with Mr A;

the retailer said that it was happy for Mr A to keep the extra £170 (which it said would 
cover the interest that he would have been charged on the sound bar) and it offered 
him £50 compensation for the poor service that he’d received in store, which it said 
would be paid to him by bank transfer;

Mr A says that he was offered a £50 voucher, which he didn’t accept, and that he 
hasn’t received the £50 compensation;

Creation Consumer Finance says that it’s unable to remove items from the 
agreement and would need the retailer to process or notify it of any amendments that 
needed to be made – but it’s received no notification from the retailer about a refund 
to Mr A’s agreement and it says that he’s received the £170 in error and been offered 
£50 compensation so has been placed into a position of financial advantage;

in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;

I consider it to be more likely than not that the retailer refunded the price of the sound 
bar to Mr A’s credit card – and that it also refunded a further £170 to him in error – 
but I consider that it should have amended his credit agreement to remove the 
charge for the sound bar from the agreement;

as Mr A has received a refund for the price of the sound bar, it wouldn’t now be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to remove the charge for 
the sound bar from his agreement as if it did that Mr A would, in effect, have received 
the refund twice;

Mr A is still paying interest on the price of the sound bar under the agreement – but 
£369.99 was refunded to his credit card in December 2018 and he’s had the benefit 
of that refund since then which will have reduced the interest that he was paying on 
his credit card;

I consider that the retailer’s response to Mr A’s complaint was fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances and, if he now wishes to receive the £50 compensation that it 
offered to him, I suggest that he contacts the retailer to ask it if the compensation is 
still available to him; and

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to pay that compensation, or any other compensation, to Mr A or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr A’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3098237
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs T bought solar panels for her home in 2011. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs T into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs T’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs T was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs T fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs T
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs T’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs T from the solar 
panels over the term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs T is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs T accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs T by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs T’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs T in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs T’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs T 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continue to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs T and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs T and she pay a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs T accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs T has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs T the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs T has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs T should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs T paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs T receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs T paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs T receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs T first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs T’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3101779
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr R bought solar panels for his home in May 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr R’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond (other than to ask for some documents, which were 
provided in October), so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr R fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr R’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr R from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr R is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr R’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr R 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr R and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr R accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr R has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr R has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr R paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr R paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr R receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr R first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3102546
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly sought monthly payments of 
£36.62 for a mobile phone, instead of the advertised payments of £24.16. She complains too 
that Creation has harassed her for payment and has not handled her concerns fairly.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr K bought a mobile phone from a retailer, C. She says that a finance 
deal was advertised by C at the time. That advertisement said that there would be an initial 
interest-free term of six months, after which monthly payments would be £24.16.
Mrs K agreed to enter into a credit agreement to pay for the phone, and to take advantage of 
the six-month interest-free period – that is, payments would be taken by direct debit from 
June 2020. However, when payments started, Creation took £36.62 each month. Mrs K said 
this was not what had been agreed and stopped the direct debit payments. Creation pursued 
her for the debt, she says unfairly. 
Creation said that the credit agreement which Mrs K had signed set out that the monthly 
payments would be £36.62. It acknowledged that it had not dealt with Mrs K’s 
correspondence as it should have done but said that the payments it sought were correct 
and that it was entitled to add charges when the monthly payments weren’t made. 
Mrs K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
agreed with Creation, however, that the loan agreement said that the monthly payments 
would be £36.62. Whilst he noted Mrs K’s comments about Creation’s handling of her 
complaint, he explained that complaint-handling, of itself, is not a matter this service can 
investigate.
Mrs K did not accept the investigator’s conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case.         
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to pay for the phone, Mrs K took out a credit agreement with Creation. The 
agreement recorded that it was a running account credit agreement. That meant that Mrs K 
could borrow more money, up to the credit limit of £5,000, if she wanted to – the agreement 
was not limited to financing the purchase of the phone.
The agreement included a summary of the credit provided in respect of the phone. That 
summary included the following information:

The phone had a cash price of £629, and this was the amount of credit provided.

The buy now pay later period was six months, ending on 26 May 2020.

Mrs K would make 24 monthly payments, the last one in May 2022.

The monthly payment was £36.62. 
The agreement itself said that a charge of £30 would apply each time a direct debit was 
cancelled or a monthly payment was not made. 
Mrs K signed the agreement electronically on 26 November 2019. 
In my view the credit agreement set out clearly what Mrs K had agreed with Creation. 
Specifically, it said that the monthly payments would be £36.62. I would be very reluctant to 
conclude that, contrary what was in writing and signed by the parties, something different 
was agreed. 
I accept that Mrs K may have seen an advertisement with a different monthly payment. She 
has – perhaps understandably – not been able to provide a copy. It may be that the lower 
payment related to a different repayment period or a different interest-free period. But, 
whatever the explanation, it did not reflect what Mrs K agreed with Creation. I am satisfied 
that Creation was within its rights to seek payments of £36.62 a month.
I also think it was within its rights to add charges in line with the credit agreement when Mrs 
K cancelled the direct debit instruction. Its actions in seeking payment were, in my view, 
reasonable and proportionate and did not constitute harassment.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mrs K’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3108620
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs C fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs C from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs C is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs C accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs C by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs C 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs C accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs C has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs C the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs C has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs C should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3109043
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in January 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3111267
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd chased and harassed her for money 
she doesn’t owe. She would like all communication from Creation to stop; compensation and 
an apology; and a letter of explanation to provide to other businesses that have reduced her 
credit limit.
What happened
Ms L says she bought a television and accessories in a store. She applied for a credit 
agreement with Creation to pay for the purchase, but then decided she would pay in cash 
and she asked for the agreement to be cancelled.
She says that money was wrongly taken from her account and that she was chased for 
payment of arrears. When she complained, Creation told her the agreement had been 
cancelled.
But, around three years later, she received letters from a debt collection agency and 
Creation says that she owes £682.11. She says she’s been very distressed by the contact 
she’s received and that her credit limits with other businesses have been reduced because 
of the adverse information recorded on her credit file about the Creation account.
Creation says Ms L’s purchase in October 2016 was paid for in full. But it says she made 
another purchase in store on 6 November 2016 for £332.99. This was a buy now pay later 
(“BNPL”) arrangement and needed to be paid for in full by 6 May 2017 if Ms L wanted to 
avoid interest. It says she’s made no payments.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Ms L didn’t agree, 
so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought this complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
I find it’s clear from what Ms L has told us that she took out a credit agreement in 
store but, when she collected the item a short time later, she decided to pay for it in 
cash instead. And I can see from the statements provided by Creation that this is 
what happened. Ms L says she told the retailer she wanted to cancel the agreement. 
She’s been quite detailed in her recollection of the conversation and I’ve no reason to 
doubt what she says. Although she asked for the agreement to be torn up, the 
member of staff explained that it had to be sent to Creation with the cancellation 
request. It’s not clear whether the store passed the cancellation instructions to 
Creation. But I find that the agreement wasn’t cancelled when it should have been.
This meant Creation debited Ms L’s bank account when the first monthly payment 
became due. Ms L’s bank reclaimed the payment, but Creation had already reversed 
it. So the account went into arrears. When Ms L was contacted for payment she 
complained. Creation explained what had happened and apologised. In its letter 
dated 24 May 2017, it told her the agreement had been cancelled and closed.
Creation says the amount Ms L owes is from a purchase she made in store on 
6 November 2016. Creation says the goods were bought using a BNPL arrangement. 
When Ms L failed to make payment in full by the required date (6 May 2017), interest 
began to accrue, and it contacted Ms L to seek payment of the arrears.
This was confusing for Ms L – she says she never bought any items on 6 November 
2016 and she thought the arrears letters were all to do with the account which she 
thought had been cancelled. And I sympathise as I agree that this is all very unclear. 
What is clear is that – if she made the purchases on 6 November 2016 – she should 
have paid the amount due by 6 May 2017. No money was paid, so the account would 
have been in arrears on 27 May 2017 when Creation sent its letter confirming that 
the account had been cancelled and closed. I think it was reasonable for Ms L to 
conclude, following receipt of that letter, that she didn’t owe any money and that 
when she received further correspondence about arrears she reasonably assumed 
this was wrong.
Creation told us – more than once - that there was only ever one credit agreement. 
But in response to our recent request for information it suggested the letter it sent 
confirming the account was closed related to a fixed term account and not Ms L’s 
Your Plan account. So Creation now seems to be saying there were two credit 
agreements, although I’ve not seen evidence of this. In any event, this does not 
change my conclusion because I’ve set out above why I think the Your Plan account 
should have been cancelled when Ms L requested it in October 2016.
And I set out what I thought Creation needed to do to put things right. I said:
In the circumstances, I think Creation should write off the balance it says Ms L owes.
Ms L says her credit file has been impacted. And she’s provided evidence to show 
that her credit account with another business was put on hold because of updated 
information it had received from the credit reference agencies. Ms L has requested 
that Creation provides her with a letter of apology and explanation, and I think this is 
reasonable.
Creation should also remove the account from Ms L’s credit file.
I’ll now go on to consider whether it should pay her some compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused. I can see from what Ms L has told us that it 
has been very upsetting for her to cope with the communications from Creation and 
from the debt collection agency about her account and the money it said she owed. 
Ms L told Creation and us a little about her circumstances and vulnerabilities and I’ve 
taken this into account when thinking about compensation. Creation hasn’t made it 
easy for Ms L to understand what’s happened here – for example, it’s only recently 
provided us with information about what the amount it says Ms L owes relates to. 
And I think the contact from a debt collection agency was particularly distressing for 
her. I think £150 is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Ms L agreed with my provisional decision.
Creation said it wanted to clarify that Ms L only had one credit agreement.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has confirmed that Ms L only had one credit agreement. That being the case, 
I don’t find any reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1.
Write off the sum that it says Ms L owes and close her account.
2.
Remove the account from Ms L’s credit file.
3.
Write a letter of apology to Ms L. The letter should explain that her account should have 
been cancelled and closed when she requested it to be in October 2016 and when she 
had paid for the item she’d purchased in full.
4.
Pay Ms L £150 for the distress and inconvenience it’s caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3113427
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs H bought solar panels for her home in 2013. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs H from the solar 
panels over the 114 month term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps 
the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs H accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs H by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 114-month loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs H 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs H has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs H the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs H has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs H should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3113480
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs C bought solar panels for her home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs C fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs C from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs C is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs C accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs C by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs C 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs C and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs C accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs C has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs C the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs C has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs C should supply evidence of the refinance, 
to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs C receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3116635
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) had an incorrect address 
for him on their system. He is also unhappy with the customer service he received from 
them.  
What happened
In October 2020, Mr G purchased electrical goods from a supplier who I will refer to as ‘S’. 
He funded the purchase of these goods through a credit agreement with Creation. Mr G says 
that during the purchase process he provided his current address and his previous address, 
because he was living at the current address for less than three years.  
In December 2020, Mr G contacted Creation as he said he didn’t receive any paperwork 
from them. He said that, during this call, he realised that Creation had an incorrect address 
as they had his previous address on their system. He said that, had he not contacted them, 
he could’ve gone into arrears which would’ve affected his credit file, and he would’ve ended 
up paying higher interest. Also, Mr G said that if Creation sent anything to his previous 
address this would’ve been a breach of data protection legislation. 
Mr G was also unhappy that the ink on the receipts that he got from S was slowly 
disappearing due to being printed on certain type of paper; and with the agent he spoke to 
when he called Creation, who didn’t give their name at the beginning of the call.  
In February 2021, Creation wrote to Mr G and said that their system captures information
provided on the application that has been electronically sent by S. They said the original 
contract Mr G signed electronically in the store in October 2020, contained his previous 
address. In that correspondence they also explained that their contract wouldn’t have been 
sent in the post, as there is an option for S to print him a copy at the time of purchase, and 
that on their system there is no evidence of any information being sent to that incorrect 
address in question. 
In this correspondence, Creation also said that they had listened to the calls Mr G had with 
their agents in December 2020, and they found that one agent didn’t give their name at the 
beginning of the call. They said that all their agents should answer calls with their name and 
the company name, so they apologised for this and said this will be raised with that 
individual’s manager. Regarding the ink disappearing on the receipts, Creation explained 
that this is something Mr G would have to raise directly with S. 
Mr G was not happy with their response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator was of the opinion that the complaint shouldn’t be upheld.  
Mr G disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities, 
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint, but I want to
assure both parties that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment
on something, it’s not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr G says that Creation had a duty of care to check that his address was correct on their 
system, and that they should’ve checked his address matches with what is noted on his 
credit file. He feels that, even if S provided Creation with the incorrect address, he feels that 
Creation had a duty of care to ensure they have the correct details for him. He has also 
mentioned that S delivered the items he purchased to his correct address, so he doesn’t 
think it was S that gave Creation the incorrect address.  
Creation said that all the information submitted by S for credit approval did relate to Mr G, 
including his old address. They said that, because the address was connected to him on his 
credit file, they were able to confirm that he was the correct person and the credit application 
was able to proceed. They also said that Mr G signed the credit agreement confirming the 
details submitted were correct, including the address on the credit agreement.
I think that Mr G had the right to have inaccurate personal data rectified, and I can see that 
when he called Creation in December 2020, they had rectified the incorrect address they 
held for him. They did this quickly and without any delay, so I think they have acted 
reasonably and fairly, once they were aware of the mistake. I understand that Mr G is 
unhappy and that he thinks Creation should’ve done more to make sure they had his correct 
address earlier, but I’ve also taken into consideration that Mr G did sign his credit agreement 
with the incorrect address on there. And I’ve also taken into consideration what impact the 
incorrect address had on Mr G.
Creation explained that Mr G opted for paper statements, but these didn’t start until February 
2021, which is after they’d already spoken with Mr G and updated his address. Creation also 
provided our service with a print screen of Mr G’s account and explained that, if any letters 
were sent prior to February 2021, there would be a specific code displayed on the account. 
Considering the circumstances of this complaint, and from the evidence I’ve been provided, I 
think most likely no personal information was sent to the incorrect address. 
I know Mr G questions what would’ve happened had he not contacted Creation. But Mr G 
has not suffered a loss because of what has happened. Thus, I cannot comment and take 
into consideration what might have happened, as we consider each complaint on its own 
merits and based on its own specific set of circumstances. And I’m unable to direct Creation 
to pay compensation for a hypothetical situation that did not arise.
Mr G was also unhappy that, when he called Creation, an agent of theirs didn’t give their 
name at the beginning of the call. But I can see that Creation apologised for this and said 
this will be raised with that individual’s manager, which I think is reasonable considering the 
circumstances. 
I also don’t think they need to take any further action relating to the ink disappearing on the 
receipts provided to Mr G by S. I say this because if he is unhappy about this issue, he 
should directly raise this with S.
I sympathise with Mr G, but taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I 
think that Creation has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with his complaint. So, it is 
not fair or reasonable for me to require Creation to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3121834
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M feels that Creation Consumer Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to the 
purchase of some furniture.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr M purchased from a Merchant some furniture using a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement with Creation to pay for it. Mr M says he raised issues with the Merchant about 
this furniture from the start. But the merchant collapsed so he complained to Creation in July 
2020 as it financed the transaction. He told it about a number of issues he considered 
unsatisfactory with the furniture including colour, flattening and puddling.
Creation looked into the matter, but it felt that under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 that there wasn’t a breach of contract or material misrepresentation in the sale of the 
furniture. It also got a different company to inspect the furniture and it said that there was no 
persuasive evidence of the furniture being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. So it 
didn’t feel that it had done anything wrong and so it didn’t have any more to do. Mr M felt this 
wasn’t fair. So he complained here.
Our investigator considered the matter and didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr M doesn’t agree. 
So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation and Mr M don’t agree on some of the key issues here. So I can only make my 
decision based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr M can bring a claim under Section 75 claim of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and other 
relevant legislation. The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr M has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also 
bring that claim against Creation provided certain conditions are met. I’ve considered these 
conditions and am satisfied that they are met in these particular circumstances.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 also implies terms into the contract with Creation that the 
furniture will be of satisfactory quality. What’s ‘satisfactory’ is, is measured by what a 
reasonable person would consider as ‘satisfactory’ considering any description of the goods, 
the price, and other relevant circumstances.  Under this legislation, the customer is entitled 
to potential redress if the furniture is not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So in 
order for me to be satisfied that Creation should do anything further, I must be satisfied that 
the problems Mr M had with the furniture were there at the point of sale or something then 
was inherently wrong with it.
Mr M points to having talked to the Merchant after the sale and says his concerns were 
agreed with by the Merchant at the time. However the Merchant has since stopped being in 
business. And this is why he took his complaint to Creation. But his complaint here is about 
Creation. And I can only uphold this complaint if I’m satisfied that Creation has treated him 
unfairly or not fulfilled its obligations under the legislation I’ve described.
I can see that Creation organised for an independent inspection of the furniture. This wasn’t 
instantaneous, however these events were during the pandemic and considering the 
circumstances I don’t think there was any unreasonable delay here or unfairness around that 
issue.
I’ve considered the independent report and I can see the inspector took numerous 
photographs and has addressed each of the issues Mr M has raised about the quality of the 
furniture. The Inspector has provided a lengthy report which demonstrates to me a diligent 
and comprehensive inspection of the furniture. I have also considered the numerous 
photographs taken of the furniture carefully as well.
Having done so I’m not going to repeat its findings at length as Mr M and the parties have 
seen this report. In short it doesn’t find persuasive evidence of the furniture being of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. It notes that there has been puddling of the leather 
which is a natural characteristic of it. The Inspector has described to Mr M methods of 
maintenance which would improve this issue.
The Inspector has noted that there is a marginal difference in shade of some of the furniture 
but has described this as natural for such furniture and its coverings. I’ve not been able to 
see any significant, noticeable difference from the photographs. And it is note that the 
inspection was done some time after the purchase, so any such colour difference could be 
due to natural changes over time.
Mr M has also complained that some of the furniture has flattened since purchase. The 
Inspector has said he’s not found evidence of issues from point of sale. He says issues 
could be due to maintenance or usage but doesn’t consider that these issues were present 
when the furniture was purchased.
Having considered the matter in the round, and the report and the photographs I’ve 
considered, I’m not persuaded on balance that this furniture was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of sale or had some form of inherent defects which Creation should remedy.
I can appreciate this isn’t the decision Mr M wishes to read. And I’m mindful of his comments 
about struggling to maintain payments for this furniture. However I’m not persuaded that 
Creation has treated him unfairly in how it has considered his claim to it under the legislation 
I’ve described. And if he is struggling financially he needs to talk to Creation about this so it 
can consider that matter.
In short, I’ve considered everything that Mr M has said, and I appreciate how Mr M feels 
about the whole situation. However, I don’t think what Creation has done with regard to the 
Section 75 has meant that Mr M has been treated unfairly. So this complaint doesn’t 
succeed.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3125958
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in March 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
I have seen clear evidence that Mr C has settled the loan by taking out a mortgage with a 
third party. This evidence has already been shared with Creation. Creation must pay Mr C 
the difference between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the 
restructure above, with interest at 8% a year. Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3127799
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected their claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought solar panels for their home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr and Mrs M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs M, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would 
provide over the original term of the loan. This restructure should be based on evidence of 
the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs M were not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr and Mrs M fairly and they lost out because of what 
Creation did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs M from the solar 
panels over the original term of the loan so Mr and Mrs M pays no more than that, and they 
keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs M are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Creation needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr and Mrs M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr and Mrs M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs M in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the original term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs M have the following options as 
to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs M accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan, Creation should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs M has settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance, to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receives their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receives their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr and Mrs M’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M and Mr and 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3130795
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr O complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (CCF) is charging him for an TV he 
says is not fit for purpose. He would be happy with a replacement 
. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -

Mr O has evidenced a crack on the TV screen, but I must decide if this is something 
that CCF is liable for or not.

Mr O took out a buy now pay later plan (BNPL) for his TV on 18 April 2020.  He had a 
thirty day right to reject the item if it was damaged or unsuitable.  Unfortunately, Mr O 
didn’t complain about the TV until 20 July 2020 some three months after he took his 
agreement. So, he missed his thirty day right to reject.

I have considered if there are any exceptional reasons as to why Mr O didn’t 
complain for three months but I don’t think there are. I appreciate Mr O says he left 
the TV, when delivered, unopened for some time in a property that he had limited 
access to due to the pandemic.  I appreciate the difficulties caused by the pandemic, 
but I am not sure why Mr O didn’t check the item when it first arrived and then re box 
it to leave it until he needed  it.

Finally, Mr O hasn’t been able to evidence that the item was damaged when he got it. 
Without any such evidence I can’t reasonably conclude that CCF should replace the 
item as Mr O would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3136165
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr E bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr E into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr E’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr E, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr E was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr E fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr E’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr E from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr E is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr E by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr E’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr E in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr E have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr E and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr E accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr E has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr E has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr E paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr E paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr E the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr E first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr E’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3136816
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t agree to our adjudicators view of the complaint, so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr F from the solar panels 
over the 5 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr F is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr F accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr F by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 5-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr F 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr F accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr F has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr F the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr F has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr F should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3136855
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
I’ve decided the redress should be calculated over a ten-year period, rather than the five-
year term of Mr F’s loan. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and reasonable 
to both Mr F and Creation. 
Because Mr F can expect to benefit from the solar panels (through energy saving and Feed-
In Tariff payments) for 20 years and was told the solar panels would pay for themselves after 
nine years, I think a ten-year period is reasonable when calculating the redress. In this 
specific case, I do not think a shorter period would strike the appropriate balance in terms of 
fairness.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr F from the solar panels 
over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr F is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr F by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr F have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr F accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr F has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr F has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3137157
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr G bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr G into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation has made an offer to settle the complaint. But it didn’t take into account that Mr G 
had settled his loan with Creation early by taking out finance with a different provider. Mr G 
felt the offer did not fully compensate him for his losses.   
Mr G’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr G, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. He explained Creation should take into account the losses Mr G incurred with 
the refinance loan he took with an alternative provider in order to fully compensate him. 
Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr G was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr G fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr G’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr G from the solar 
panels over the 5 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr G is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr G accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr G by way of explanation.  
I understand Mr G has settled the loan, so Creation has offered to pay Mr G the difference 
between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
But Mr G has said he settled the loan by refinancing. As our adjudicator explained, because 
Mr G has settled the loan by refinancing, I think Mr G should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr G paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr G paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr G receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr G the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr G first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our well-established approach (as described above). I direct that Creation should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr G’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3139461
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
 
What happened
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in January 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance.  Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the event the calculation shows that Mrs B is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation need to reimburse Mrs B accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs B by way of explanation.  
As Mrs B has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs B the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs B’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3139532
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in January 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the loan 
to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance.  Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for his.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation need to reimburse Mr W accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr W by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows this is a loss, then while the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr W’s loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr W 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr W 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If the Mr W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr W the difference between what he 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3141172
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr F’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr F from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr F is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr F accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr F by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr F’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr F 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr F accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr F has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr F the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr F has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr F should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr F first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3144253
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to him the money that 
he’s paid under a fixed sum loan agreement for some furniture that isn’t of satisfactory 
quality. 
What happened
Mr B used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he signed in 
March 2020 to pay £2,637 for two sofas and a footstool. The furniture was delivered in July 
2020 but he says that it’s the wrong colour. He complained to the supplier and it sent a 
technical adviser to inspect the sofas. Mr B says that the adviser agreed that the sofas were 
the wrong colour and that there was a discrepancy in the colour reference numbers but the 
supplier refused to change them.
Mr B then complained to Creation Consumer Finance. It said that the supplier had confirmed 
that the sofas that Mr B had received were as ordered but the supplier had offered a 
reselection as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that he hadn’t 
seen any documentation or reports from the supplier or a case file from Creation Consumer 
Finance. He thought that the information provided by Mr B showed that there had been a 
breach of contract by the supplier. He recommended that Creation Consumer Finance 
should refund all finance payments made, with interest, and that it should arrange and pay 
for collection of the sofas.
Creation Consumer Finance says that it’s chased the supplier for a response to those 
recommendations as it needs its feedback in case it has further evidence or if it agrees that it 
should collect the sofas – but it has provided no further information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:

Mr B has described in detail the circumstances leading to his complaint to Creation 
Consumer Finance and he’s provided photos of the sofas in his home;

neither the supplier nor Creation Consumer Finance has provided detailed 
information about the sofas that were bought by Mr B, to show that the correct sofas 
were delivered to him, or the technical adviser’s report;

having reviewed the photos that Mr B has provided I consider it to be clear that the 
sofas are cream and brown but the colour scheme in the room that the sofas are in is 
cream and grey;

the order form says that Mr B ordered sofas that were “snow with a grey trim” – I 
don’t consider that the sofas that were delivered to him have a grey trim and I’m not 
persuaded that it’s likely that Mr B would have chosen the colour of the sofas that 
were delivered to him;

our investigator issued his recommendations in July 2021 but no substantive 
response has been received from Creation Consumer Finance and it says that it’s 
still waiting for a response from the supplier – but more than four months have 
passed since then and I don’t consider that it’s fair or reasonable for there to be any 
further delay on this complaint;

I’ve only been provided with limited information on which to make my decision, but 
having reviewed the information that has been provided, I consider it to be more 
likely than not that the sofas that have been delivered to Mr B aren’t the colour that 
he ordered; and

I consider that it’s fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr B to reject the 
furniture.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Consumer 
Finance to end the fixed sum loan agreement and to refund to Mr B the payments that he’s 
made to it under the agreement. I find that it should also pay interest on those payments.
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should also arrange and pay for the sofas and 
footstool to be collected from Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr B’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the fixed sum loan agreement at no cost to Mr B.
2.
Refund to Mr B all of the payments that he’s made to Creation Consumer 
Finance under the fixed sum loan agreement.
3.
Pay interest on those amounts at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
4.
Arrange and pay for the sofas and footstool to be collected from Mr B.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3145413
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr B fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr B from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr B is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr B accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr B’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr B in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr B 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr B and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr B accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
Mr B’s representative has indicated Mr B settled the loan early, but this hasn’t been 
confirmed by Creation. If Mr B has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr B the difference 
between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with 8% interest.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr B should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3148536
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in April 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. Mr H (represented by a 
claims management company) asked Creation for a refund in September 2020. When 
Creation did not respond (Creation says this was because it never received the claim letter), 
Mr H brought this complaint to our service, in March 2021.
Mr H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. She also recommended that Creation pay Mr H £100 for his trouble.
At first, on 27 August 2021, Creation accepted the adjudicator’s opinion. It asked for copies 
of Mr H’s feed-in tariffs (FITs) so that it could calculate how much redress to pay him. The 
adjudicator told Creation that Mr H had never been registered for FITs, allegedly due to an 
error by the installer.
After that, nothing more was heard from Creation until November, when Creation challenged 
our service’s jurisdiction to consider this case. Creation argued that this case had been 
brought too late under the time limits for bringing complaints. The adjudicator did not accept 
this, and so the case has been referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, a complaint normally has to be 
brought within six years of the event being complained about. Alternatively, a complaint may 
be brought later than that if it is brought within three years of when the complainant became 
aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause for complaint. 
Creation says that both of these time limits had expired by the time Mr H complained. 
(Whether that was in September 2020 or March 2021 makes no difference.)
However, it is important to be clear about precisely which event is the subject of the 
complaint. Creation has assumed that this is the sale of the credit agreement, which 
happened in April 2014. But I think that this complaint is technically about Creation’s 
handling of Mr H’s claim under section 75, in 2020 and 2021, in line with our service’s well-
established approach in section 75 jurisdiction cases. Accordingly, it follows that Mr H 
brought this complaint well within six years of that event, and that this service does have 
jurisdiction over this complaint.
The basis of Mr H’s claim under section 75 was that he was induced to enter a contract in 
April 2014 by a misrepresentation made by the installer. Section 75 makes Creation jointly 
liable for that misrepresentation, and gives Mr H the same right to bring a claim against 
Creation as he has against the installer. But under the Limitation Act 1980 there is a time 
limit for bringing such a claim, which is six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued. In this case, that limitation period expired in April 2020. Normally, I would consider 
it to be fair and reasonable to allow Creation to rely on that limitation period, and to reject a 
section 75 claim on the ground that it has been brought too late, as Mr H’s was.
However, on the facts of this case, I think it is fair and reasonable to treat Creation as having 
waived the limitation period, because in August 2021 it agreed in writing to pay Mr H 
compensation along the lines recommended by our adjudicator in settlement of his 
complaint. So I will hold Creation to that.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr H’s complaint for 
Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar panels over the five year term of the 
loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future 
benefits once the loan has ended.
If the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the five year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr H 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr H accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr H has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3148661
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t make a fair and reasonable 
offer in response to his claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr L into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr L paid off the loan by taking further borrowing on his mortgage. He later moved out and 
sold the property, so no longer gets any benefit from having the solar panels. 
Creation didn’t accept there had been a misrepresentation but made an offer of settlement. 
Mr L rejected this, as he didn’t think it took into account the additional costs incurred through 
refinancing via his mortgage and that he no longer lives at or owns the property.
Mr L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions where that 
data wasn’t available. The adjudicator also said that the additional costs of refinancing 
should be taken into account as well as the fact that Mr L no longer benefits from the solar 
panels.
Creation said it accepted the adjudicator’s assessment but did not provide an updated offer 
within a reasonable time. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Mr L attempted to mitigate his losses by using his mortgage to pay off the loan early. He has 
since re-mortgaged. So, Creation should include any costs such as interest that Mr L has 
incurred through the additional borrowing he took on to pay off the loan – including on the re-
mortgage if the initial lending had not been paid off by the time of the re-mortgage. Mr L will 
need to provide statements from both mortgage accounts if he hasn’t already done so.
Mr L has also moved out of the property, after which he would’ve obtained no benefit from 
using any of the energy generated. And once he sold the property he no longer received the 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments. Once he stopped receiving these benefits they should not be 
included in Creation’s calculations.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr L fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr L from the solar panels for 
the period he was living in (in relation to energy savings) and owned the property (in relation 
to FIT payments). 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr L paid more than he should have, then Creation 
needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation 
has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr L by way of 
explanation. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Mr L has settled the loan by refinancing, so he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation (if he hasn’t already done so) and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr L paid with the refinanced loans.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr L receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld in line with our approach 
within a reasonable time. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr L’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3149474
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
  
What happened
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators in June. They thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the 
loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide 
over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Creation responded in August to say it accepted the adjudicator’s assessment and the 
recommended redress and asked for some further evidence to help it calculate the 
settlement. This information was obtained from Mr M and provided to Creation in September. 
But Creation has not yet, despite a number of reminders, made an offer of settlement in line 
with the adjudicator’s recommendation. 
Given the time that has passed, the complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr M by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3152764
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide 
over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation 
didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from the solar panels 
over a 10 year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
I’ve decided the redress should be calculated over a 10-year period, rather than the 5-year 
loan term of Mr A’s loan. This is because I need to ensure the redress is fair and reasonable 
to both Mr A and Creation. Because Mr A can expect to benefit from the solar panels 
(through energy saving and Feed-In Tariff payments) for approximately 20 years, I think a 
10-year period is reasonable when calculating the redress. In this specific case, I do not 
think a shorter period would strike the appropriate balance in terms of fairness.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr A accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr A by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr A’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
Mr A has indicated he paid off his loan early although this hasn’t been confirmed by 
Creation. If Mr A has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr A the difference between what 
he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr A has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr A should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr A paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr A’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3157283
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains about a credit agreement he had with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd which 
was mis-sold to him by a third party.
What happened
Mr B says that in November 2019 he went to a third party retailer for the Black Friday sale 
(although I have noted that in that year Black Friday fell on 29 November, but Mr B’s credit 
agreement is dated 28 November, the day before, and his account with Creation was 
opened on the 28th). He bought a television, a sound bar and a fridge. He had intended to 
pay for these immediately, but the salesman persuaded him to buy them on credit and pay 
for them after Christmas, to ensure that he would have enough money for Christmas 
presents. Mr B says the salesman told him it was an interest-free agreement. In fact, it was 
actually a running account credit agreement under which no interest would be charged on 
any money he repaid within the first nine months, but from 28 August 2020 interest would be 
charged on any outstanding balance at an APR of 24.9%. Mr B signed the agreement 
without reading it, because it was so busy in the store. He says he thought he was only 
signing a direct debit mandate.
The salesman asked Mr B for an email address. Mr B says he told the salesman he no 
longer had an email address, but he offered to give his old work email address, to which he 
no longer had access. The salesman accepted this. Mr B says he asked the salesman if he 
would still receive all of the paperwork in the post, and the salesman assured him that he 
would. But this was untrue, and nothing was ever sent to him in the post. Creation relies on a 
clause in the credit agreement which states that all correspondence and statements will be 
sent to the email address provided by the consumer.
No payments were made to Mr B’s account during the interest-free period. Mr B noticed that 
no payments were leaving his bank account, but he says that since the fridge was not 
delivered until August 2020, he assumed that Creation had not begun collecting payments 
by direct debit yet, and were waiting until all of the goods had been delivered.
On 28 August, Creation charged nearly £500 of interest to Mr B’s account. Starting in 
September, monthly payments were made to Creation by direct debit from his account. Mr B 
says he first noticed these payments in January 2021. He asked Creation to waive some or 
all of the interest, but when Creation refused he paid off the entire balance. By then he had 
incurred over £700 of interest. He complained.
Creation did not accept that the credit agreement had been mis-sold. Mr B brought this 
complaint to our service. He asked for the interest to be refunded.
Creation told us that the retailer’s sales staff are too well trained for Mr B’s allegations to be 
plausible. It argued that Mr B had signed the agreement, so he knew or should have known 
what he had agreed to. It said it had sent statements to him by email before the interest-free 
period had expired.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He accepted Mr B’s account of events. Since Mr B no 
longer had access to his email address, and had told the salesman that, the emails Creation 
had sent him were irrelevant. He thought the agreement had been mis-sold, and that 
Creation was responsible for the mis-sale, having regard to section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. He said that if Mr B had known about the deadline, he would have made his  
payments in time, and avoided incurring any interest. So he recommended that Creation 
refund all of the interest, and pay interest on the refund.
Creation asked for an ombudsman’s decision. I wrote a provisional decision along the 
following lines. (I have made some changes to reflect some points since made by Mr B.)
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint, but not to award Mr B a refund of the 
interest. Rather, I am currently minded to tell Creation to pay him £50 for his inconvenience. 
I will explain why.
I think that Mr B’s explanation of what happened is credible, and I accept it (notwithstanding 
that it was actually the day before Black Friday). While I have no doubt that the retailer’s 
sales staff receive adequate training, I cannot accept that mistakes are never made, and 
there is no evidence to contradict Mr B’s recollection of events.
I am satisfied that the salesman made an error during the sale. He should not have accepted 
an email address which Mr B had told him he no longer had access to. I presume, based on 
the wording of the relevant clause in Creation’s terms and conditions, that if no email 
address had been recorded, his copy of the agreement and his statements would have been 
sent to him by post. The salesman also erred by telling Mr B that these would be sent to him 
in the post, when that was clearly not true, as the terms and conditions made clear.
Taking into account section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, I think it is fair to say that 
Creation is responsible for those errors, even though it was not aware of them. For that 
reason, I am upholding this complaint. But it does not necessarily follow that the remedy is to 
refund all of the interest, and in this case I don’t think that would be fair. That is because 
what happened during the sale was not the only reason why Mr B ended up paying interest 
on the account; I have also taken into consideration everything that happened after that.
Mr B did not read what he was signing. That was his choice. I appreciate that it was busy 
and so he felt rushed, but I don’t think that is the salesman’s fault. He knew he was entering 
a credit agreement, and while I don’t think it was unreasonable of him to sign the agreement 
and read it later (because there was a 14 day cooling-off period during which he could 
withdraw from the agreement), he was expecting to receive the paperwork in the post, and 
yet when it didn’t arrive he didn’t pursue that at the time. Had he done so, I am sure Creation 
would have posted it to him (because that is what Creation did do when he finally asked for 
the agreement), and then he would have known that he had to pay off the balance by 28 
August.
Mr B assumed, without being told, that his direct debit payments had not started because the 
fridge had not yet been delivered. I think it would have been prudent to check that. I do not 
accept that his assumption that he did not have to pay anything until the fridge was delivered 
means that it would be fair to require Creation to repay all of the interest.
I have no doubt that Mr B could afford to pay for his purchases immediately, since that was 
what he had intended to do originally. So as soon as he learned that there was a deadline 
for repayment, whether as a result of chasing Creation for the account opening documents 
or by verifying that payments were not yet due, he would have been able to pay in good time 
and avoid incurring any interest.
For both of those reasons, I think that refunding over £700 of interest would not be 
proportionate… I am currently minded to order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mr B 
£50.
Responses to my provisional decision
Creation accepted my provisional findings. Mr B did not. He explained that he had been very 
busy during the interest-free period, due to having building work done at home from 18 
November 2019 to January 2020, two elderly relatives living in care homes (although visits 
became impossible from March 2020 due to the covid-19 lockdown), and a family 
bereavement in May 2020. He said he hadn’t known that the finance agreement had been 
with Creation; he had thought it was with the retailer directly. He therefore had not 
recognised the direct debit payments when he noticed them on his bank statement.
My findings
I accept that Mr B did not realise that his credit agreement was with Creation, but I’m sure 
that if he had asked the retailer for the paperwork then they would have referred him to 
Creation.
It appears that a direct debit must have been set up at the point of sale, since direct debit 
payments to Creation started in September 2020 without Mr B setting up any kind of 
payment in the meantime. This is in accordance with Mr B’s recollection of events, since he 
told us he thought he signed a direct debit mandate at the time (albeit that he’d thought he 
was authorising payments to the retailer). So I conclude that he signed a direct debit 
mandate (as well as the credit agreement) at the point of sale. He therefore must have 
expected payments to begin once the fridge was delivered. The fact that the payments were 
actually made to Creation instead of to the retailer may have come as a surprise to him, but 
I do not think that was such a shock that it deserves the payment of compensation. Also, as 
I have said, if Mr B had asked the retailer for the paperwork, he would have learned of 
Creation’s involvement long before September.
I recognise that Mr B was busy, and I was sorry to read about his bereavement. However, 
since he was still able to go shopping for a television after the building work had started, 
I don’t think that the building work and care home visits would have prevented him from 
chasing the retailer for a copy of his credit agreement when it didn’t arrive as expected. That 
would only have taken a phone call, or a short letter.
For these reasons, I have not changed my opinion that £50 is fair compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3158216
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr C’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr C’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr C accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr C by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr C’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
,
If Mr C has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr C the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr C should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr C’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3160402
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S, who is represented by Citizens Advice, complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
didn’t tell him he owed money and that it notified credit reference agencies of his subsequent 
arrears.
What happened
I have had a limited response from Creation and the information is not as detailed as I would 
expect. However, from what I have seen it appears Mr S had a loan agreement with Creation 
for the purchase of furniture from a retailer I will call R. Mr S disputed multiple parts of it and 
this resulted in a sofa being returned. Mr S continued to pay £20 per month, but he says he 
was told he was in credit and need make no further payments. Subsequently Creation 
passed the outstanding sum to a debt collection agency and notified the credit reference 
agencies.
Creation in its final response letter says that during a call in October 2017 Mr S was told that 
his account was in credit, but there was a remaining balance of £294.20. It says he was 
asked if he wished to set up a direct debit but declined to do so as he was saving for 
Christmas. It says he agreed to call after Christmas to pay the balance but failed to do so.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didn’t recommended it be upheld. He concluded the balance was due and 
it would be inappropriate for it to be written off. He also presumed that as the debt had been 
transferred to a debt collections agency that Mr S would have been told about this. Mr S 
didn’t agree. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said Mr S’s complaint centred on a conversation he had with Creation in late 2017. We had 
asked for a copy of the call recording along with other relevant documents, but Creation had 
not been able to supply it. I asked for further details from Creation about the account but I 
received a limited response.
I had seen Creation’s version of what was said in that call, but I couldn’t say for certain that it 
was made clear to Mr S that he owed an outstanding sum. Having considered the evidence 
provided to this service I was satisfied that at the very least Mr S was unclear as to what he 
owed as a result of that conversation. I said it may be that Creation had sent him subsequent 
letters regarding the debt but given it hasn’t responded to request for information I couldn’t 
safely conclude that it had done so. The only letter I had seen was the final response letter 
to Mr S’s complaint.
In the circumstances Creation hadn’t persuaded me that Mr S was made aware of his debt 
with sufficient clarity and I didn’t consider it fair that his credit rating had been affected. On 
the balance of probabilities, I considered it likely that Mr S did owe £294.20 and it would be 
fair for Creation to be paid that sum. However, due to the lack of clarity I considered it 
unreasonable for Mr S’s credit file to be affected.
I thought Creation should recover the debt from the collection agency and make 
arrangements with Mr S to pay the sum due. It should also arrange for all adverse entries 
relating to this debt to be removed from his credit files. I considered it should also pay him 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
I said that if Creation did provide additional evidence this may result in me changing my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have not heard from Mr S or Citizens Advice. Creation said it had sent a copy of a letter in 
relation to a separate complaint which it thought I should see. It sent me a copy of the final 
response letter which I had seen previously. This was issued in December 2019.
It also said that it had sent a letter in 2019 which stated how much was owed. I assume this 
means the December letter since no other was attached. It also sent templates of letters it 
says would have been issued about defaulting the debt. The date for the first of these was 
given as 14 April 2020.
This is after Mr S made a complaint and I believed misses the point as set out in my 
provisional decision. I concluded that it had not been made clear to Mr S in 2017 that he 
owed further sums and that failure was the key element of the complaint. I agree it has been 
brought to his attention subsequently, but the complaint was brought to this service in April 
2020 and I cannot say that subsequent letters can be said to have an impact on the earlier 
failure.
As such I consider my provisional decision should stand. I am satisfied that Mr S owes the 
money and it should be paid, but the debt should not affect his credit files. 
Putting things right
 Creation should remove any adverse entries it place on Mr S’s credit file relating to this debt 
and pay him compensation. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should remove all adverse entries 
on Mr S’s credit file relating to this debt and engage with him to arrange payment of the sum 
due of £294.20. It should also pay him £100 compensation for the distress this longstanding 
issue has caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3161451
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Miss W bought solar panels for her home in February 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Miss W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Miss W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Miss W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Miss W was not given clear information 
to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Miss W fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Miss W from the 
solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she 
keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
In order to perform this calculation, Creation will need to be provided with feed-in tariff 
statements for a period of 12 months, a recent electricity statement or a time-stamped photo 
of her up to date meter reading. So if Miss W wishes to accept this decision, she should 
provide that evidence to Creation as soon as possible.
If the calculation shows that Miss W is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Miss W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Miss W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of this decision, 17 January 2022. So I think the fairest 
resolution would be to let Miss W have the following options as to how she would like her 
overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Miss W and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Miss W and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Miss W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Miss W has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 
8% a year.
If Miss W has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Miss W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss W receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Miss W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Miss W receives her refund.
5.
Pay Miss W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Miss W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3162282
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that a sofa that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr S used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance, that he signed in 
September 2020, to pay for a sofa. The price of the sofa, including care cover, was £989, he 
paid a deposit of £200 and agreed to repay the loan by 36 monthly payments of £21.91. The 
sofa was delivered to him in September 2020. He says that the cushions sunk and the sofa 
wasn’t fit for purpose. He says that he received a satisfaction survey from the supplier which 
he completed and returned to say that he wasn’t happy with the sofa but he didn’t receive a 
response. His wife then tried to contact the supplier but its store was closed due to the 
government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic. When those restrictions were 
eased, he and his wife went to the store and an inspection of the sofa was arranged.
The inspection identified faults with the sofa and the supplier ordered the parts required to 
repair those faults. Mr S said that he wanted to reject the sofa. He complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance in December 2020 but it said that the sofa had been inspected and parts 
ordered to repair it so he didn’t have the right to reject it. Mr S wasn’t satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Mr S had tried to reject the sofa within 14 days and should be able to reject it due to it being 
of unsatisfactory quality. He recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: cancel 
the agreement; arrange collection of the sofa; remove any reference to the agreement from 
Mr S’s credit file; refund any payments that he’d made, with interest, and pay him £50 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that there’s no evidence that the supplier was informed that the sofa 
was faulty within 14 days and that it believes that the repair should be performed and that 
the sofa shouldn’t be rejected.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the sofa was delivered to Mr S in October 2020 and he says that the cushions sunk 
and the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose;

he says that he received an e-mail from the supplier with a satisfaction survey which 
he completed and returned to say that he wasn’t happy with the sofa – he doesn’t 
have a copy of that survey and I consider it to be likely that the survey was 
completed online so a copy wouldn’t be available to him;

he didn’t receive a response to the comments that he’d made on the survey so he 
says that his wife then tried to contact the supplier but its store was closed due to the 
government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic and that, when those 
restrictions were eased, he and his wife went to the store and an inspection of the 
sofa was arranged;

the supplier has no record of Mr S asking to reject the sofa until he visited the store in 
December 2020 but Mr S has provided a detailed description of his attempts to 
contact the supplier within 30 days of the sofa being delivered to him to say that it 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality and that he wanted to reject it;

I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S did return the survey to the supplier 
in which he said that he wasn’t happy with the sofa – and it’s clear that he expected 
the supplier to contact him in response to that – and that his wife also made 
reasonable efforts to contact the supplier within 30 days of the sofa having been 
delivered, but was unable to contact it;

the supplier arranged for the sofa to be inspected and faults were identified so it 
ordered the parts required to repair those faults – but Mr S said that he wanted to 
reject the sofa and I understand that it hasn’t been repaired;

the inspection confirmed that there were faults with the sofa and, as I consider that 
Mr S had made reasonable efforts to contact he supplier about those faults within 30 
days of the sofa having been delivered to him, I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for him to be able to reject the sofa; and

I’m not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for Mr S to have to accept a 
repair of the sofa.
Putting things right
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should end the fixed sum loan agreement and 
arrange for the sofa to be collected from Mr S – both at no cost to Mr him. I find that it should 
also remove any information about the agreement that it’s recorded on Mr S’s credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr S paid a deposit of £200 for the sofa. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to him that deposit and any 
monthly payments that he’s made under the agreement, all with interest.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr S. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £50 to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr S’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the fixed sum loan agreement and arrange for the sofa to be collected from 
Mr S – both at no cost to him.
2.
Refund to Mr S the deposit that he paid for the sofa.
3.
Refund to Mr S any monthly payments that he’s made under the agreement.
4.
Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5.
Remove any information about the fixed sum loan agreement that it’s recorded 
on Mr S’s credit file.
6.
Pay £50 to Mr S to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3163779
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mrs R bought solar panels for her home in July 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs R into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs R’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs R, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs R was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs R fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs R’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs R from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs R is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs R in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs R’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs R have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs R and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs R accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs R has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% 
a year.
If Mrs R has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs R paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs R paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs R receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs R the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs R first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3174677
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr M has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr M bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr M into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr M, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr M was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr M fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr M from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr M accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr M by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr M’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr M and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr M accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr M has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr M the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr M has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr M should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3175969
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr A, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Creation initially accepted our adjudicators view and made an offer to settle the complaint. 
But Mr A didn’t accept Creations offer as he didn’t feel Creation had correctly carried out the 
redress calculation and therefore hadn’t fully compensated him for his losses. Our 
adjudicator asked Creation to check its offer, as she also felt it didn’t appear to be in line with 
our established approach. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
As Creation has agreed in principle with the merits of this complaint and offered to put things 
right in line with our established approach, my decision will mainly focus on the matter left in 
dispute- i.e. the redress figures quoted by Creation. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
As explained above, our adjudicator felt the complaint should be upheld. Creation responded 
to the adjudicators view, accepted her findings and agreed in principle to put things right in 
the way our adjudicator set out. It said Mr A had settled the loan early, so it offered to pay 
Mr A the difference between what he paid in total to settle the loan, and what the loan should 
have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest
However, its redress calculation showed that Mr A had settled the loan early by making a 
payment far less than what was due under the original agreement, and what was due under 
the restructure above – this meant the no further redress was now due to him. Mr A agreed 
he’d settled the loan early, but not for the amounts cited by Creation. Our adjudicator asked 
for Creation to evidence how much Mr A had paid to settle the loan, but Creation didn’t 
respond so the case was passed to me.  
Having carefully considered what Creation and Mr A have said, I think that Creation didn’t 
treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right. In principle, I agree with Creation’s offer of putting things right by 
recalculating the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to 
Mr A from the solar panels over the term 5 year term of the loan – so he pays no more than 
that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr A accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr A by way of explanation with evidence where appropriate. 
I say this because while Creation says Mr A settled the loan early, it hasn’t evidenced how 
much Mr A Settled the loan for, or explained why it accepted such a small amount to 
discharge the agreement. According to the figures cited by Creation, it said that My A settled 
the loan by paying an amount significantly less than what was due for the solar panel system 
even without interest being charged. 
And as mentioned above, Creation has offered no explanation as to why it would’ve 
accepted such a small payment amount in full and final settlement of the agreement. We’ve 
asked Creation to explain and evidence the figures it has cited but it hasn’t responded to our 
requests. 
So, I think Creations needs to review its offer of redress again, and explain with evidence, 
how much (if any) is now due to Mr A. 
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having reviewed everything both parties have submitted, I think Creation needs to pay Mr A 
the difference between what he actually paid in total to settle the loan and what the loan 
should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest. And Creation needs to 
evidence how much Mr A paid to settle the loan. 
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld and redress offered in 
line with our established approach. I direct that Creation should pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr A’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3177985
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that a sofa he purchased through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the sofa should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation are responsible as there’s been a breach of 
contract. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant law explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to assume 
it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the sofa’s quality. 
But if the fault happens after six months it is for the consumer to demonstrate the fault was 
present or developing, 
Here, the fault was first reported after six months, and I am not persuaded that Mr M has 
been able to demonstrate the fault was present or developing from the beginning. That’s 
because the independent inspector who looked at the sofa in December 2020 didn’t 
conclude the peeling leather was as a result of any manufacturing defect.
So, I won’t be asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3182980
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) sent him misleading 
information about the end of his Buy Now Pay Later period, which resulted in him incurring 
interest charges.
What happened
Mr D made purchases using a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) credit agreement provided by 
Creation. The agreement provided a 12-month interest free period provided the full amount 
was repaid by the Special Offer Date (BNPL end date) – 14 May 2021.
Mr D was sent an email from Creation, in March 2021, informing him that his March 
statement was available to view on his online account. This email included a payment due 
date of 14 June 2021.  
Mr D says he didn’t receive an email in April 2021. And based on the email he received in 
March 2021, he believed he had until June 2021 to settle his balance and avoid being 
charged interest.
Because Creation didn’t receive payment of the full amount by the BNPL end date, interest 
was applied to Mr D’s balance. Mr D complained to Creation about this. He said he’d been 
informed by email that he had until 14 June 2021 to pay his balance.
Creation issued a final response to Mr D’s complaint on 25 June 2021. It explained that the 
BNPL end date was clearly stated on Mr D’s credit agreement. It said Mr D had no obligation 
to settle his agreement in full by that date, he only needed to do so if he wanted to avoid 
paying interest. Creation said the emails sent were to inform Mr D that his first direct debit 
payment would be taken from 14 June 2021. But the email also included a link to Mr D’s 
online statements, and these clearly stated the BNPL end date was 14 May 2021. Based on 
this, it didn’t uphold Mr D’s complaint.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. He said the emails he received were misleading 
and designed to ensure that he missed the BNPL end date and was charged interest. He 
said Creation failed to send him an email in April 2021 as it was required to. So, he felt 
Creation should refund him the interest he’d been charged.
Our investigator didn’t think Mr D’s complaint should be upheld. She said the emails sent to 
Mr D explained that the payment due date was the date his direct debit payment was due 
and that this was different to the BNPL end date. She also said the online statements 
included details of the BNPL end date and Mr D could have signed up for access to these 
from the outset of his credit agreement.
 
Mr D doesn’t agree. He accepts the correct BNPL end date was 14 May 2021 and that he 
didn’t clear his balance by this date. But he says he would have done had Creation not sent 
misleading emails.
So, because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold the complaint for the following reasons: 
Mr D’s credit agreement clearly states that the BNPL period for his purchase ends on 
14 May 2021. It goes on to explain:
“Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the 
payments do not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £2203 by this date you 
won't be charged any interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the 
credit amount due, you will have to make monthly repayments of 143.34 starting on 
14/06/2021. Any balance left to pay after this date will incur interest from the date of 
your purchase at the rate specified in your credit agreement.” 
And,
“You will be automatically opted in to receive online statements for your 'Your Plan' 
account. You'll receive a monthly notification via email when your statement is ready. 
This will contain a link to log on to your online account to view your statement.
Logon to www.yourplan.online to view your account today.”
In my view the above information is clearly and prominently displayed on the credit 
agreement. So, I’m satisfied that Mr D was appropriately made aware of his BNPL end date, 
and how he could access his statements, when he took out the credit. 
 
I’ve next considered whether I think Mr D was appropriately notified that his BNPL period 
was coming to an end. 
Mr D says that the emails he was sent by Creation were misleading because the payment 
due date was quoted as 14 June 2021. I’ve thought carefully about this. But from what I’ve 
seen, the email sent to Mr D in March 2021 also stated:
“Payment Due Date explained

If you are currently paying by Direct Debit, below is your next payment due date.

If you are already paying for Your Plan purchases by Direct Debit and recently made 
a purchase on Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL), please login to your online account for 
further information. 

If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to advise when 
your first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL end date will have been 
provided at the time of purchase, you will receive a reminder 30-40 days prior to the 
end”
The final bullet point above makes a distinction between the direct debit due date and the 
BNPL end date. This email also included a link to login to the online account and view the 
March 2021 statement. This statement clearly stated the BNPL end date as 14 May 2021 
and that the BNPL period was coming to an end.
Mr D has pointed out that the March 2021 email stated he’d receive a reminder about his 
BNPL end date within 30 to 40 days. He says he didn’t receive any emails from Creation 
between March 2021 and May 2021 – the latter of which was after the expiry of the BNPL 
period.
Creation says that an email was sent to Mr D in April 2021 but says its unable to evidence 
this due to its data retention policy. It has, however, pointed out that the April 2021 statement 
would have been available for Mr D to see on his online account from 24 April 2021. And I’ve 
seen a screenshot of Mr D’s online account which supports that this would have been the 
case.
Again, I’ve thought carefully about the above. In order to uphold Mr D’s complaint, I’d need 
to be satisfied that Creation failed to bring to his attention that the BNPL end date was 
approaching. As Creation is unable to evidence that it sent the April 2021 email, I can’t 
reasonably conclude, on balance, that it did so. However, in the circumstances here, I don’t 
think that means it failed to appropriately notify Mr D about the end of his BNPL period. I say 
this because I’m persuaded that the April 2021 statement would have been available on the 
online portal from 24 April 2021. And in addition to this, as stated above, the March 2021 
statement clearly included the correct BNPL end date and an explanation that the BNPL 
period was coming to an end. And the link to this statement was definitely emailed to Mr D, 
and received by him, in March 2021.
Ultimately, I think Creation did enough to remind Mr D that his BNPL period was coming to 
an end. I accept Mr D found the inclusion of the direct debit due date to be confusing. But I 
don’t agree that the email was misleading, when read in its entirety. And I can’t reasonably 
hold Creation responsible for Mr D’s decision not to check the accompanying statement.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr D’s complaint against Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3184697
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd was mis-sold and was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. He paid a deposit of £2,900 and the agreement was for £3,729 over 36 months; 
with 35 monthly repayments of £123.56 and a final payment of £133.56. At the time the car 
was around seven years old and had done 49,523 miles.
Mr A said he started to have problems with the car within a few weeks of taking possession 
of it – he discovered the rear bumper was held on by cable ties, the air-conditioning wasn’t 
working, and the engine kept cutting out and going into limp mode.
The car went back to different branches of the supplying dealership group for repair, on a 
number of occasions between March and October 2020. And, while the bumper and air-
conditioning were fixed, the engine problem remained. The dealership accepted that the car 
wasn’t of a satisfactory quality when supplied, and they gave Mr A three options:
1.
part-exchange the car for another one;
2.
sell the car back at the sale price, less a deduction for mileage; or
3.
continue to try and have the car repaired.
Mr A wasn’t happy with these options, and he wanted to reject the car, and be compensated 
for what’d happened. So, he complained to Creation. Creation upheld his complaint, but 
thought the options offered by the dealership were reasonable. And they didn’t offer anything 
more to resolve the complaint. Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, as all parties agreed the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, Creation should do something to put things right. And, because of what’d 
happened, she thought it was reasonable for Mr A to be able to reject the car.
While Mr A had said he’d only used the car for emergencies since October 2020, the 
investigator said this wasn’t supported by the evidence she seen. And she thought Mr A 
should pay for the use of the car. But she said Creation should refund him 20% of the 
payments he’d made, plus statutory interest, to reflect the impaired usage he’d had.
The investigator also said that Creation should refund the Mr A’s deposit, plus interest, pay 
£80 to have the private numberplate removed, and compensate Mr A £400 for the distress 
and inconvenience he’d been caused.
Mr A agreed with the investigator, but Creation didn’t respond. So, the matter was passed to 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
While this case was waiting to be allocated to an ombudsman, Mr A purchased a new 
vehicle, and declared this car to be off the road. And he provided evidence showing the car 
has been off the road since 28 November 2021. 
Because of what’d happened, the investigator issued a second view. In this she said that, in 
addition to what she’d already recommended, Creation should also refund 100% of the 
payments Mr A had paid after 28 November 2021, plus interest. Mr A accepted this, and 
Creation said they wanted to go back to the dealership ‘to see of they were still on board’. 
Creation then arranged for the car to be collected on 11 March 2022 but made no further 
comments. Because of this, the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, 
Creation are responsible. What’s satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when the car 
was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr A to show it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this 
right.
As all parties have agreed that the car wasn’t of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr A, I won’t address this within my decision. Instead, my decision will concentrate on what 
Creation need to do to put things right.
Putting things right
It’s clear from the evidence that Creation and the dealership have had multiple attempts at 
fixing the engine fault with the car. And these attempts were all unsuccessful. And, by 
collecting the car in March 2022, Creation have allowed Mr A to reject the car. Which I think 
is reasonable in the circumstances. And both his deposit, and the cost of removing his 
private numberplate from the car, should be refunded to him as part of the rejection.
Mr A had use of the car between January 2020 and November 2021, and I think it’s fair that 
he pays for this usage. However, during this period, the car had an intermittent fault which 
meant the engine kept going into limp mode. So, it’s fair to say that Mr A’s usage of the car 
during this period was impaired. And I’m in agreement that Mr A should be refunded some of 
his payments to reflect this impairment.
Mr A has provided evidence that the car has been off the road since 28 November 2021, but 
he’s still been making payments to Creation. As he hasn’t had use of the car since this date, 
all the payments he’s made after this point should also be refunded to him.
Finally, Mr A has had to take the car multiple times to four different dealerships, most of 
them a sizeable distance from his home. And, when he’s had the car, the intermittent fault 
has meant he’s had to borrow transport from family and friends to attend things such as 
hospital appointments, due to the car breaking down. Given this, I’m satisfied that Mr A has 
suffered a great deal of trouble and inconvenience as a result of the car that was supplied to 
him, and I think Creation should compensate him for this.
So, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

refund the £2.900 deposit Mr A paid;

refund 20% of all payments Mr A made between the start of the agreement and 28 
November 2021;

refund all the payments Mr A has made on or after 28 November 2021;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds, calculated from the date Mr A made 
the payments to the date of the refund †;

remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr A’s credit file;

upon receipt of evidence of payment, refund Mr A the £80 he paid for transferring his 
private number plate from the car; and

pay Mr A an additional £400 for the distress and inconvenience he’s suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality. 
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr A’s complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3187308
--------------------------

Complaint
Mrs D has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs D bought solar panels for her home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs D into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs D’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs D fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs D’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs D from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs D is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs D accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs D by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs D’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs D in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs D’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs D 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs D and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs D accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs D has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs D the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs D has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs D should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs D paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs D receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs D paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs D receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs D first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs D’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3187983
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t closed his account 
despite his requests. 
What happened
Mr G holds a credit facility of £5,000 with Creation. Creation refer to this as a ‘Your Plan’ 
account. Mr G purchased a television from a store and used his Creation account to pay for 
this. Mr G says when the store delivered the television the drivers were rude and drove away 
without delivering his television. 
Mr G then called Creation on 20 October 2020 to complain. The phone note says Mr G 
wasn’t happy with the delivery drivers, he says they arrived before the expected delivery 
time, they were rude and then refused to deliver the television and took it away. The note 
says Mr G wanted the purchase cancelled and Creation referred him to the store. Creation 
note Mr G’s desired outcome is to cancel the finance and to receive compensation. Creation 
then wrote to Mr G on 23 October and confirmed they understand his complaint is that he’s 
unhappy with the service received from the store and he wants his agreement cancelled. 
Creation then respond to Mr G’s complaint on 14 December and say they understand he’s 
unhappy that his agreement hasn’t been cancelled and the service provided by the store. 
Creation confirm the agreement was cancelled in October and ask Mr G to note that 
cancellations have to be sent through to them by the store and they can’t process them 
without instructions from the store. In relation to the service provided by the store, Creation 
provide contact details for the complaints department at the store.  
Mr G emailed Creation on 17 December and said he wasn’t happy with their response. He 
said he asked Creation, during his call in October, to close his account but, having checked 
his credit file, he could see it was still showing as open. Mr G asked for his Creation account 
to be closed. Creation emailed Mr G on 30 December to say the email address used by him 
to send his email on 17 December didn’t match the email they held for him on their records, 
so they asked him to contact them by phone to close his account. They said this was for 
security purposes. Creation then wrote to Mr G the same day and said they understand he 
wants to close his account but they can’t see this was requested previously. They say if     
Mr G had made this request to the store then Creation wouldn’t have been aware of this and 
wouldn’t be able to proceed without Mr G’s authorisation. 
Creation asked Mr G to call them to close the account or to email them using the email 
address they have for him on their records (which they provide in their letter).  
 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr G and Creation on 22 November 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
“Mr G’s account and credit limit 
I think it’s important for me to firstly address the issue about Mr G’s credit limit with 
Creation. I can see our investigator says Mr G already had an account with a credit 
facility of £5,000 but was then, unnecessarily, given a second account with a credit 
facility of £3,000 for the purchase of the television. 
I can see Mr G’s credit file shows his Creation account with a limit of £5,000. His 
credit file shows another account with a company with an almost similar name. The 
credit limit on this account is for £3,000. Creation say they have carried out a search 
of their systems but they can only find one account which Mr G holds with them – 
that being the ‘Your Plan’ account with a credit limit of £5,000. They confirm Mr G 
doesn’t hold a second account with them with a credit limit of £3,000. Creation say 
the account with a £3,000 credit limit appears to be a credit card account which is 
something they offer as part of their portfolio of lending. They say they carried out a 
search to see if they could find a credit card account for Mr G but they couldn’t find 
any records. They say this suggests it’s an old account which has now been archived 
– and they say this is reinforced by the fact that the credit file shows a zero balance 
on that account.  
Creation have provided system notes which show Mr G holds a ‘Your Plan’ account. 
And, he has had two agreements on this account. The first was in March 2020 and 
relates to an item Mr G purchased for £369. This was paid off by Mr G in August 
2020. The second agreement started on 14 October 2020 and relates to the 
purchase of a television for around £300. The system notes show this agreement 
was cancelled by the store on 22 October. 
Creation’s system notes don’t show Mr G having two credit limits – there only 
appears to be one limit for £5,000. I’m persuaded this is the case as, at the time of 
the first agreement, the system notes show Mr G’s credit limit and available credit as 
£5,000. The first agreement then comes to an end with Mr G paying the balance. 
Then, at the time of the second agreement, Mr G’s credit limit is still £5,000 but his 
available spend is now £4,700 – this shows the price of the television has been 
deducted from a credit limit of £5,000. So, I don’t think Mr G has two accounts with 
Creation. There were two agreements on the same account, but the credit limit has 
always remained at £5,000. 
Mr G’s request for his account to be closed     
The terms and conditions of Mr G’s account says he or Creation can close the 
account by giving written notice to the other. 
The information I’ve seen shows Creation did receive a written request from Mr G to 
close his account but this was on 17 December. Creation didn’t close the account at 
this point as the email they receive isn’t from the email address they hold for Mr G. 
I’ve looked at the email address they hold for Mr G and it is different to the email 
address Mr G uses to send his request on 17 December. It’s only a subtle difference 
but the fact remains it’s from an email address different to the one Creation hold. So, 
I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to ask Mr G to either call or email from 
the address they hold for him in order to close his account. 
It’s not clear whether Creation have now closed this account but if Mr G still wishes 
for Creation to close his account then he will need to let Creation know through the 
communication channels they have suggested. 
I am sorry to hear about Mr G’s experience on the day his television was delivered 
but I can only look at his complaint about Creation and not the store. Mr G will need 
to raise these with the store if he hasn’t done so already.” 
So, subject to any further comments from Mr G or Creation, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to not uphold this complaint. 
Following my provisional decision, Creation have responded to say they don’t have any 
further comments to make. Mr G has responded and says he doesn’t agree with the 
decision. He says Creation have wasted his time and didn’t remove the accounts when he 
asked them to. He says he wants compensation for the false impression created on his 
credit file and giving him an unnecessary credit limit of £8,000 to carry out a purchase of 
£300. As both parties have responded, I don’t see any reason to delay my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.  
In relation to Mr G’s comments, I do acknowledge Mr G feels his time has been wasted but I 
can’t say Creation have refused to remove his account. The information I’ve seen shows 
Creation have a process which customers need to follow to close their account. Mr G has 
followed this process by requesting in writing for his account to be closed but I don’t think it’s 
unreasonable for Creation not to have done this given the concern they have following the 
request being from an email address they don’t have on record. I think Creation have then 
set out reasonable options for Mr G to provide verification in order to close his account.  
I note Mr G’s request for compensation but I would only consider awarding this if I find 
Creation have made an error which has had an impact on Mr G. I can’t say that’s the case 
here as the evidence I have seen shows Mr G holds one account with Creation with a credit 
limit of £5,000. I can’t see Mr G was given a second account with an additional credit limit of 
£3,000. So, I can’t say any error by Creation has created a false impression on Mr G’s credit 
file. So, I won’t be asking Creation to pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3197666
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms L has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Ms L bought solar panels for her home in November 2015. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Ms L into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms L’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Ms L, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms L was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms L fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms L’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms L from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Ms L is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Ms L in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms L’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Ms L have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Ms L and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms L and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Ms L accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Ms L has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Ms L has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Ms L paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms L receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Ms L paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms L receives her refund.
5.
Pay Ms L the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms L first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3200456
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in January 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the five year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the five year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3201740
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has not been of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well established, so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead 
I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss B acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss B. The car here was about 
seven years old and had already covered about 78,500 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be showing some signs of wear and tear, but I don’t think they’d 
expect to experience engine faults that rendered the car undriveable after only a few 
hundred miles.
Miss B took the car to a garage to have the faults diagnosed only 335 miles and one month 
after she entered into the finance agreement. The diagnostic revealed issues with the engine 
misfiring and said there were problems with the engine control module and the power supply 
to the instrument cluster. 
Creation haven’t responded to Miss B, or to us, about these issues and I’ve not therefore 
been able to benefit from their view on whether those faults were present when Miss B took 
receipt of the car.
As the faults were identified so soon I think it’s likely they were issues that were present or 
developing when the car was supplied to Miss B. They are therefore issues that Creation are 
responsible for as the car was not of a satisfactory quality when supplied. 
The relevant legislation gives the business an opportunity to repair faults that are present 
from the beginning, but the legislation also expects those repairs to be concluded in a 
reasonable period of time and that can’t fairly be said to be the case here. Miss B reported 
the matter to Creation on 29 September 2020 and they’ve not helped her to resolve matters. 
Miss B has explained that the car has been sitting unused on a driveway since.
In those circumstances I think the fairest solution would be to tell Creation to allow her to 
reject the car.
Miss B has also provided evidence that suggests the car was advertised as having a full 
service history, but didn’t. On the basis of that limited but uncontested evidence it would 
suggest the car had been misrepresented to Miss B. In those circumstances the redress I’d 
be ordering would be the same as I’ve detailed below. So, even if I’m wrong about the car 
not being of satisfactory quality I think Miss B should still be able to reject it and in the 
following manner.
Putting things right
Creation should collect the car at no cost to Miss B and they should end the finance 
agreement.
They’ll need to refund any deposit Miss B has paid and, as she’s been deprived of that 
money, they will need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has had to arrange and pay for a diagnostic report on the car’s condition in order to 
support her claim. I think that cost has been incurred as a consequence of the car being of 
unsatisfactory quality. So, Creation should refund the £49.99 that report cost, adding interest 
as Miss B has been deprived of that money.
Miss B has been inconvenienced by these issues. She’s had to take the car back to a 
garage and then for a diagnostic and she’s had to escalate her complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier if Creation had cooperated. In those 
circumstances Creation should pay Miss B £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she’s experienced.
Miss B had only driven a few hundred miles when the car failed, and she’s explained that 
she hasn’t used it since. Creation have had an opportunity to dispute that use but haven’t. 
So, I think it’s fair to say that Miss B has had very limited use of the car. In those 
circumstances I think Creation should refund all of the finance instalments she’s paid 
towards her agreement, adding interest as Miss B has been deprived of that money.
Miss B has explained that the car is now SORN and hasn’t been used since it broke down 
on 21 September 2020. In those circumstances it wouldn’t be fair for her to be paying to 
insure or tax the car since that date as she has had no use of it. Creation should therefore 
refund any insurance or road tax that Miss B has paid and can evidence to them, to cover 
the car from 21 September 2020. They’ll need to add interest to that refund.
Miss B has also explained that she hasn’t been able to benefit from the warranty she had for 
the car. She’s provided a copy of the advert that explains the car is provided with a 15-month 
warranty and a copy of the warranty guarantee. The car sales price was £11,999 but there’s 
no breakdown of the warranty cost. The warranty cost isn’t broken down on the hire 
purchase agreement either so it wouldn’t be fair to ask Creation to refund anything as on the 
basis of the documentation the warranty appears to have been provided free of charge.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
1. End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Miss B.
2. Refund the deposit of £3,000.
3. Refund all payments Miss B has made under the agreement in respect of the lack of 
use she’s experienced.
4. Refund the £49.99 Miss B paid to have faults diagnosed on the car.
5. Refund consequential costs relating to road tax and insurance if Miss B can provide 
evidence she paid for these after 21 September 2020 when the car broke down.
6. Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts in points 2,3,4 and 5 above, 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
7. Pay Miss B £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
8. Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Miss B’s credit file in 
relation to these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3202542
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited unfairly charged him interest 
under a credit agreement. 
What happened
Mr B bought a laptop in September 2019 for around £1,150 from a retailer I’ll call ‘R’ using a 
running account credit agreement from Creation. From what I can see there was a £200 
deposit, so the borrowing was around £950. The credit agreement gave Mr B a buy now pay 
later (BNPL) option, meaning he had six months to pay off the credit before any interest 
would be applied. The plan summary said the BNPL period would end on 23 March 2020. 
And it goes on to say ‘if we receive your settlement payment after 23/03/2020 we will charge 
interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified above’. 
Mr B says he was abroad at the time the BNPL period came to an end. He said he’d been 
unable to access R’s website and emailed them but didn’t receive a response. He said that, 
by this point, Covid-19 had started causing issues and his flight home had been cancelled. 
As he hadn’t received a response to his emails, Mr B said he tried to call R but was unable 
to get through. 
As Mr B didn’t take his paperwork abroad with him, he didn’t initially know Creation was the 
creditor. But once he remembered he said he tried to access its website but there was an 
error message. After trying unsuccessfully to get through to Creation on the phone over the 
next few days he managed to speak to it. He paid off around £900. But he was called back 
by the advisor who said they’d misquoted the price, and that he owed around another £200 – 
which included interest. Mr B was unhappy so raised a complaint. 
Creation looked into things and acknowledged there was a technical issue on its website on 
15 April 2020 which was rectified around 5pm (although Mr B said he couldn’t access it other 
times). But it said it couldn’t be held responsible for Mr B not settling the agreement. It said it 
had emailed Mr B statements prior to the BNPL period ending. However, it did acknowledge 
its advisor initially gave Mr B the wrong information, so it applied a £75 credit to reduce the 
balance on the account. 
Unhappy with this Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator ultimately 
thought Creation had done enough to put things right. She thought Creation couldn’t be held 
responsible for Mr B not being able to access its website while he was abroad. She noted 
Mr B had contacted Creation after the BNPL period had already ended. So she didn’t think it 
acted unfairly by applying the interest. And she thought Creation’s offer of £75 was fair for 
the misinformation from its agent. 
Mr B didn’t agree. He reiterated he’d been unable to get through to R. He doesn’t see what 
more he could have done to pay given both R and Creation’s websites were ‘down’. He’s 
also unhappy he wasn’t told when he took out the agreement that he might’ve had issues 
paying it while he was abroad. He says he could have made other arrangements had he 
known. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say I’m sorry to hear that Mr B was impacted by Covid-19. I appreciate the time and 
effort it has taken him to bring his complaint to our service. 
I also want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure Mr B and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on 
something, it’s not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr B bought the laptop using a regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is 
able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
 
I first want to highlight that the complaint I’m considering is against Creation. Creation is a 
separate business from R. So what this means is that I can consider how Creation has 
treated Mr B under this complaint. But this doesn’t necessarily mean I can hold it liable for 
everything R did or didn’t do after the agreement was brokered. 
As a starting point, it’s not in dispute that payment was not made to the agreement prior to 
the end of the BNPL period – 23 March 2020. The agreement sets out that interest can be 
charged if the balance is not paid by this date. This didn’t happen, so Creation charged 
interest as per the agreement that Mr B entered into. So I don’t find it unfair Creation has 
charged interest on this basis. 
I’ve next considered whether there are any other reasons why Creation should not be fairly 
able to charge interest. If Mr B had tried to pay the balance but Creation had done 
something wrong that meant he was unable to then that would seem unfair. But I’ve not seen 
evidence Mr B tried to contact Creation before the BNPL period had ended. The evidence 
I’ve seen shows Mr B spoke to Creation on 15 April 2020 – after the interest had already 
been applied. So I think by the time Mr B spoke to Creation it was already too late. 
I take Mr B’s point that he was having difficulties contacting R. Of course, it’s not unusual for 
a customer to contact the retailer when seeking to pay for the goods. It’s not clear whether 
Mr B would have been able to pay the agreement through R’s website, or over the phone 
with it. Creation hasn’t responded to our requests on that point. But he may have been able 
to. So to be fair to Mr B we asked him if he had any evidence of contacting R before the 
deadline of 23 March 2020. He told us he was unable to get call logs or evidence of going on 
the website. The contact he has been able to provide is of an email to R on 11 April 2020 
saying he’d been trying for a few days to clear his account but had been unable to access 
the website or phone. This is nearly three weeks after the BNPL period ended. So even if I 
was able to hold Creation responsible for something R may have done wrong, on balance, I 
still don’t have sufficient evidence Mr B contacted R before the deadline. So I don’t find this 
would give me the grounds to direct Creation to remove the interest. 
I’ve also thought about Mr B’s comments that he should have been told at the outset he 
might’ve had difficulty paying from abroad, particularly as he bought the laptop to take away 
with him. But I’m not persuaded Creation has acted unfairly here. While under certain 
circumstances it can be held responsible for R’s antecedent negotiations, I don’t think R 
would have been expected to cover every single eventuality when selling the laptop and 
brokering the agreement. Brokers are required to provide adequate explanations including 
the key features. And, in any event, Mr B was able to pay Creation by other means, such as 
over the phone, which is what he ended up doing. So I don’t find I have the basis to uphold 
the complaint based on what was or wasn’t advised at the point of sale.
 
I’ve finally thought about the impact of Covid-19. It was an unprecedented situation for 
consumers and businesses. And, of course, I can understand Mr B would’ve had a lot to 
process and think about given he was abroad at the time the pandemic started to escalate. I 
do appreciate that Mr B may have had other things to worry about. But I still don’t find that 
this would give me the grounds to say Creation has acted unfairly by applying interest, when 
there’s insufficient evidence Mr B contacted it, or indeed R, before the deadline.
 
Creation did acknowledge it gave Mr B wrong information when he spoke to it. And it offered 
a £75 reduction to the balance. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. But for the reasons 
given above, I’m not going to direct it to write off the interest. 
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Limited has offered to reduce Mr B’s balance by £75 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
I don’t direct Creation to take any other action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3205663
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (“Creation’s”) decision not to 
uphold a claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“section 75”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m expecting to uphold this complaint and I know that will come as a disappointment to 
Creation, so please let me explain.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I’m persuaded there has been a breach of contract here. I say that because the quote 
provided by Mrs B to rectify the damage explains it is for “rectifying plaster damage caused 
by the bay window being fitted incorrectly”. Having reviewed the supplier’s details, it looks 
like they have expertise in window fitting and would be well place to decide whether the 
damage identified was as a result of a poorly fitted window.
I’ve also not seen any evidence that Creation’s insurers have disputed the damage was 
caused when the windows were fitted incorrectly by the supplier. Indeed, I think it’s fair to 
say that’s accepted as the insurer asked Mrs B to obtain quotations for the work and in a 
recent email Creation agreed with the investigator’s view that there had been issues with the 
installation.
 
Putting things right
Creation have suggested that Mrs B will need to provide quotes to their insurers, but the 
relevant legislation holds Creation, and not their insurers, responsible for Mrs B’s claim.
I think it would therefore be fair for Creation to accept the recent quote supplied by Mrs B of 
£4,980 and pay her this amount so she can arrange for the repairs to be carried out. 
Mrs B has experienced delays here as the complaint shouldn’t have been passed to 
Creation’s insurers to deal with. In the circumstances I would therefore agree with the 
investigator that the business should pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Pay Mrs B £4,980 so she can arrange for the quoted work to be completed;

Pay Mrs B £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she’s 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3207913
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t extended the special offer 
date for his payment under a fixed sum loan agreement that he used to pay for a sofa. 
What happened
Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in March 2020 to pay for a sofa. The price of the sofa was £1,488, he 
paid a deposit of £150 and the loan from Creation Consumer Finance was for £1,338. He 
agreed to repay the loan by 36 monthly payments of £70.31 with the first instalment due in 
March 2021. He also had the option to repay the £1,338 by a special offer date in March 
2021 with no interest being payable.
There was a delay in the sofa being delivered to Mr D because of the government imposed 
restrictions in response to the pandemic so he didn’t receive it until June 2021. He asked the 
retailer, which has since stopped trading, to extend the special offer date by which he had 
the option to repay the £1,338 without any interest being payable.
Creation Consumer Finance collected the first payment of £70.31 from him in April 2021 and 
said that the special offer date had expired, interest had been applied correctly and that it 
issued him with reminder letters in September 2020 and February 2021 about the expiration 
of the special offer date. It also said that it couldn’t locate any evidence of an extension to 
that date being processed. Mr D wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that 
the retailer had extended the special offer date and she said that the agreement term 
supports the fact that the agreement wouldn’t have started until after he received the sofa. 
She recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: reimburse £70.31 to Mr D; 
reverse the interest charge of £437.05, so Mr D is only required to pay £1,338 (if he hasn’t 
already done so); and reinstate his credit file and reverse any adverse marker that might 
have been applied in respect of this account.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that the information from the retailer about the date being applied from 
delivery was incorrect, the agreement doesn’t state that payments will begin after delivery 
and it has never indicated to Mr D that the agreement would be adjusted. It says that Mr D 
signed the agreement and accepted the terms, there’s no record of what was discussed with 
the retailer, it shouldn’t be held accountable for any mis-information and the case was only 
brought to it April 2021, after the retailer had stopped trading. 
Mr D says Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t explained the amount of interest that it says 
he owes, he didn’t receive the letters from it in September 2020 and February 2021 and he 
was dealing with the retailer about the loan agreement.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the agreement was signed in March 2020 and the special offer date was twelve 
months later;

the delivery of the sofa was delayed because of the government imposed restrictions 
in response to the pandemic so Mr D didn’t receive it until June 2020;

Mr D’s notes show that he phoned Creation Consumer Finance in April 2020 and 
was told that he should call the retailer once the sofa had been delivered to request a 
three month payment break to be added to the “buy now – pay later” period;

the retailer wrote to Mr D in June 2020 and said: “The finance does not start coming 
out of your account until 30 days after delivery therefore your agreement has not 
started yet”;

that was incorrect information but I consider that it was reasonable for Mr D to rely on 
it at that time and to understand that the special offer date had been extended;

it was clearly Mr D’s intention that he would pay £1,338 to Creation Consumer 
Finance to repay the loan without paying any interest by the special offer date – and I 
consider that it was more likely than not that he would’ve paid that amount to 
Creation Consumer Finance by the date in March 2021 but didn’t do so because of 
the incorrect information that he’d been given by the retailer; and

I’m not persuaded that it’s fair or reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to 
charge Mr D interest in these circumstances and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to take the actions described below.
Putting things right
I find it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to rework Mr D’s 
account to remove any interest and charges under the agreement so that the total amount 
payable by him to it for the sofa is £1,338. I consider that it should deduct from that amount 
the payment of £70.31 that it’s collected from Mr D (and any other payments that Mr D has 
made under the agreement) and notify Mr D of the net amount due from him. Provided that 
he pays that amount to it within 30 days of that notification I consider that it should then end 
the fixed sum loan agreement. If Mr D doesn’t make the payment within that period I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to then apply 
the terms of the agreement to the outstanding amount due from him.
If Creation Consumer Finance has recorded any adverse information relating to the fixed 
sum loan agreement on Mr D’s credit file, I consider that it should remove that information.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Rework Mr D’s account so that the total amount payable by him to it for the sofa is 
£1,338 (as described above).
2.
Remove any adverse information relating to the fixed sum loan agreement that it’s 
recorded on Mr D’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3208986
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained on behalf of his late wife’s estate that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) rejected the estate’s claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 in relation to Mr and Mrs B’s purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B bought solar panels for their home in January 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Creation in Mrs B’s name, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
weren’t. (Mrs B died in 2018, and the loan has since been settled by Mr B.)
This complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. He also recommended that Creation pay £100 for Mr B’s trouble in bringing 
the claim.
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mrs B was the only debtor under the loan agreement, Mr B is not an eligible 
complainant in his own right, because he was never a customer of Creation. I have seen 
Mrs B’s will which appoints Mr B as her sole executor, and so he represents her estate in 
this complaint. Since he is also the sole beneficiary, I will direct that Mrs B’s compensation is 
paid to him directly (as it’s very likely that the estate’s debts will have been settled by now).
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B (and, subsequently, 
her estate) from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more 
than that, and her husband keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the 
loan has ended. (For Creation to carry out this calculation, Mr B will need to provide FIT 
statements, or alternatively a photo of his meter reading and the date it was taken, and also 
an electricity statement from the month when the panels were installed.)
If the calculation shows that Mrs B and Mr B have paid more than they should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse Mrs B’s estate accordingly (but I will direct that the payment is 
made to Mr B). Should the calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a 
financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr B by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then I require Creation to recalculate the loan to put 
Mrs B in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution, since Mr B has 
settled the loan, would be that Creation should pay him the difference between what Mr and 
Mrs B paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr B has settled the loan by refinancing, then he should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund him the extra which Mrs B and then Mr B paid each month with the Creation 
loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr B receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount his wife 
would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I think that would be fair because Mr B was settling a debt owed by his wife’s estate.
I am unable to award Mr B the £100 which was recommended by the adjudicator, because 
(as I have explained above) he is not an eligible complainant in his own right. Nor can 
I compensate him for his inconvenience in his capacity as executor of his wife’s estate. 
I regret that that may come as a disappointment to him.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3216981
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D says Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Creation provided the following loan to Mr D:
Date taken
Amount
Term
Monthly repayment
Total amount payable
January 2018
£8,000
48 months
£243.30
£11,678.40
Mr D told us that if Creation had carried out proper checks and looked at information shown 
on his bank statements it should’ve realised that the loan wasn’t affordable and shouldn’t 
have been provided to him. 
 
Our investigator didn’t uphold Mr D’s complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our investigator’s view. He told us that he was persistently stuck in 
overdraft at the bank and he sent us additional information showing the extent of his financial 
difficulty at the time, including evidence of missed direct debit payments and more 
information about his credit history.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and I’ve kept this in mind when deciding Mr D’s complaint. I’d like to reassure Mr D that I’ve 
looked at the complaint afresh – and I’ve independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan – in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules don’t say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrower’s credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrower’s overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks weren’t carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
would’ve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
should’ve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that can’t be repaid in a sustainable way. 
I’ve thought carefully about what this all means for Mr D’s complaint.
When Mr D applied for this loan, Creation asked him for information about his finances and 
carried out some credit checks. It sent us details of the information it recorded during the 
loan application process.
Mr D told Creation his take home pay was around £1,350, and looking at bank statements 
he has sent me, that seems about right. So I can’t fairly say that it wasn’t reasonable for 
Creation to have relied on this figure when carrying out its affordability assessment. 
Creation asked Mr D about his rent and what he was spending on this other credit 
commitments. 
These figures didn’t suggest that Mr D would have any difficulty meeting the loan 
repayments for this loan on top of his other likely monthly spending. 
It looked like Mr D should’ve had ample disposable income to cover the £243.30 instalment 
he had signed up to pay each month.  
The credit checks Creation carried out showed that Mr D had no active county court 
judgements registered and none in the last 6 years and he’d had no recent defaults on his 
record (none were shown for the previous 4 years). 
Mr D says Creation should’ve known he was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to him 
and he’s sent us information, including bank statements and an up to date credit report, to 
support what he says. 
But I think it’s fair to say that all the information Creation had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr D seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. 
It wouldn’t be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt or a 
longstanding overdraft – and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldn’t 
necessarily be fair reasons not to lend. 
I don’t think the amount of debt shown on Mr D’s credit checks was excessive having regard 
to his income or that anything else revealed in the credit checks Creation carried out was 
enough for me to say that a responsible lender should’ve realised it needed to find out more 
before lending or that Creation saw enough to realise it should’ve refused the loan 
application. 
I’d expect Creation to decide Mr D’s lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
When a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesn’t usually provide the 
same level of detail that a person’s own credit search will. And it isn’t necessarily up to date 
– that can depend on when other creditors have reported information and when it’s been 
recorded by the credit reference agency. 
A lender might only see a small portion of a borrower’s credit file, or some information might 
be missing or anonymised. I’m also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report 
to the same credit reference agencies. This means that information Mr D might see on his 
own credit check, may not have been identified by a credit check done by Creation when he 
applied for this loan. 
To sum up, I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to lend here – especially as there 
wasn’t anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr D wouldn’t be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. 
And I don’t think proportionate checks would’ve required Creation to probe any more deeply 
into Mr D’s finances or ask Mr D to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to send in 
his bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what he had 
told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I think there was a large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate that 
Mr D might now feel the loan was unaffordable for him. But the loan documents set out the 
terms and the amount of interest payable. Mr D applied for this loan and he had to actively 
engage in the loan application process. 
The total amount he was signing up to repay over the contractual loan term, including 
interest, was set out and the agreement showed the number and amount of the payments he 
would need to make. 
Taking everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking a high cost loan on 
terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
I don’t think Creation had any reason to think that Mr D wouldn’t be able to sustainably repay 
the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main loan 
costs and Mr D said he wanted to proceed. 
I’m sorry that Mr D has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved 
difficult for him. I accept that Mr D’s actual circumstances possibly weren’t fully reflected 
either in the information he provided, or the other information Creation obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
In this case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr D. And I haven’t seen enough to make me think that Creation acted towards Mr D in any 
other way that wasn’t fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D and I’m sorry. But 
I hope my explanations help him understand why I’ve reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold Mr D’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3218690
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected 
their claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to their 
purchase of some solar panels.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought solar panels for their home in March 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs M into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. They 
also say that they were promised free LED light bulbs for 20 years, but did not receive them.
Mr and Mrs M’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs M, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t respond (other than to ask to see the 
copies of the feed-in tariff (FIT) statements and an electricity bill from the time of installation), 
so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs M were not given clear 
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate 
to an additional cost for them. However, I am not persuaded that the salesman really told 
them that they would receive 20 years’ worth of LED bulbs for free, and I think this is likely to 
have been a misunderstanding.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr and Mrs M fairly, and they lost out because of what 
Creation did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs M’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs M 
from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so they pays no more than that, and 
they keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
To carry out this calculation, Creation will need to be provided with copies of Mr and Mrs M’s 
FIT statements, or alternatively an up-to-date photograph of their meter reading (with the 
date it was taken), and also their electricity bill from March 2015.
If the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs M are paying (or have paid) more than they should 
have, then Creation need to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with them by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs M in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs M’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would have paid more each month than they should have done, 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as they would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr 
and Mrs M have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be 
used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continues to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they continues to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs M and they pays a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs M accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept, and provide the evidence needed for the calculation.
If Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan, Creation should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr and Mrs M paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs M receive their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs M first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. So I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3221127
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd were wrong to reject a claim she 
made to them under section 75 of the Consumer credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won’t repeat them again here 
but will focus my comments on my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with running 
credit such as this, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs C made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Mrs C bought a laptop, USB stick and antivirus software from the supplier and there was 
also a charge for set up. The total charge was £700.
It’s clear that the laptop broke soon after it was supplied. The supplier’s notes say, “Display 
fault…not customers fault” and I’m persuaded it was therefore likely the laptop wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality when supplied and that there’s therefore been a breach of contract here.
I think the set-up charge and the ancillary products that Mrs C bought were costs she 
incurred as a consequence of buying the laptop. Without the laptop I’ve not seen evidence 
that Mrs C would have use of those additional items.
Whilst it seems the supplier offered a refund of the cost of the laptop Mrs C has explained 
she didn’t receive that money. I’ve seen copies of her main bank account statements and no 
refund is showing. So, I think Creation were unreasonable when they rejected Mrs C’s 
section 75 complaint.
Putting things right
Creation should therefore refund the £100 deposit Mrs C paid and refund any payments Mrs 
C has made towards the credit agreement in respect of this purchase. They’ll need to end 
this agreement with nothing more to pay towards it.
The relevant legislation allows Creation to deduct money from any refund for any use the 
consumer has had from the goods but here I’m not persuaded a refund would be reasonable 
as I can’t see sufficient evidence Mrs C had any use.
The business should also ensure that they remove any adverse reports they may have made 
to Mrs C’s credit file in relation to this purchase.
As I can’t see that Creation explained their decision properly to Mrs C I think they should 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused and, in the circumstances, I 
would agree with the investigator that they should pay £75 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:
End the agreement for the purchase of this equipment with nothing more to pay.
Refund the £100 deposit adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs C’s credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Pay Mrs C £75 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3221221
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that a computer that he paid for using credit from Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited was misrepresented to him.
What happened
Mr A bought a computer, mouse and keyboard from a retailer in November 2020 as a 
Christmas present for his daughter to play games on. The price of the computer was £499 
and the total cost of the three items was £663.99 which was applied to Mr A’s credit account 
with Creation Consumer Finance. 
He says that he’d been advised by the retailer in an online chat that the computer was 
suitable for gaming and he visited one of the retailer’s store where he was told that the 
computer was suitable for gaming. He then bought the computer online but, when it was set-
up, his daughter couldn’t play the games that she wanted to play on it. Mr A says that he 
tried to contact the retailer by phone but couldn’t get through to speak to it and he was 
prepared to pay more for a suitable computer. 
He then complained to Creation Consumer Finance but it rejected his claim. It said that the 
webpage for this computer makes no mention of gaming and, as this was an online non-
advised sale, it would expect the customer to check the advert and specification to ensure it 
was suitable for their needs. It said that it would need to see evidence that information 
provided by the retailer prior to the sale influenced the decision to buy the computer for it to 
be able to review the matter further.
Mr A wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didn’t 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that there was no evidence of a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation with the purchase which meant that there was no 
available claim.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He questions what 
evidence he can provide to show that the computer was misrepresented to him and he says, 
in summary and amongst other things, that:

he’s made lots of other purchases from the retailer using his credit account and not 
complained about any of them;

the receipt shows a gaming mouse, a gaming keyboard and the computer so it was 
likely that the computer was going to be used to play games;

the retailer and Creation Consumer Finance both have provided appalling customer 
service; and

if the computer hadn’t been misrepresented to him he wouldn’t have wanted to return 
it and pay more for a suitable computer. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mr A used credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance to pay for the computer 
and other items - in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier;

to be able to uphold Mr A’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer 
and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to his claim under section 75 wasn’t 
fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr A’s claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mr A says that he was advised by the retailer online that the computer was suitable 
for gaming and that he visited the supplier’s store where he was also told that the 
computer was suitable for gaming – and he says that he bought a gaming mouse and 
keyboard with the computer so it was likely that the computer would be used to play 
games - but he’s not been able to provide any documentary or other evidence to 
show that he was advised that the computer was suitable for gaming;

Creation Consumer Finance says that this was an online, non-advised sale so it 
would expect Mr A to have checked the advert and specification to ensure that the 
computer was suitable for his needs;

it also says that the webpage for the computer describes it as being suitable for: 
“Powerful basic computing, video streaming, photo and video editing - the 9th 
generation … processor does it all” – and that there was no reference to gaming in 
that description;

Mr A says that the computer isn’t suitable for his daughter’s gaming needs and that 
he’s made lots of other purchases from the retailer using his credit account and not 
complained about any of them - but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence 
to show that the retailer represented to him that the computer would be a good 
computer for playing the games that his daughter plays;

I sympathise with Mr A that he’s bought a computer that isn’t suitable for his 
daughter’s gaming needs but I’m not persuaded that there’s enough evidence to 
show that the retailer misrepresented the computer to him in these circumstances;

Mr A has complained about the customer service that he’s received from the retailer 
and from Creation Consumer Finance – although Mr A is clearly frustrated by the 
retailer’s customer service, that isn’t something for which Creation Consumer 
Finance would be liable under section 75;

Mr A complained to Creation Consumer Finance in May 2021 but it didn’t issue its 
final response to him until September 2021 – that was longer than it should have 
taken which is likely to have caused further frustration to Mr A – but I consider that 
the response that it sent to him was fair and reasonable and I’m not persuaded that 
an award of compensation for that delay is justified in these circumstances; and 

I find that it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer 
Finance to allow Mr A to reject the computer, to pay him any compensation or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr A’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3226390
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs N complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of a sofa.
What happened
Mrs N purchased a sofa and entered into a finance agreement with Creation. She 
experienced issues with the sofa. The springs gave way and the recliner got stuck.
Mrs N tried to contact the retailer, but it was no longer trading so she complained to 
Creation.
Creation arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. The technician found a manufacturing 
fault with the mechanism in the recliner and said a new one would have to be ordered. 
Mrs N was unhappy about the time it had taken to arrange the inspection. She asked 
Creation if she could reject the sofa and end the agreement.
Creation said it had arranged a repair to resolve the complaint. It declined the rejection 
request.
Mrs N remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although Creation had the right to repair 
the sofa, it hadn’t arranged the inspection in a  timely fashion and hadn’t explained its right to 
repair to Mrs N . He recommended that Creation paid compensation and refund the costs of 
an insurance policy that Mrs N had paid for but which hadn’t been set up.
Creation said it required written confirmation that the policy hadn’t been set up. It didn’t 
respond to the remainder of the view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there’s been a 
breach of contract by the supplier.
Mrs N was upset about the fault with her sofa and about the delay in having it inspected. She 
doesn’t understand why Creation won’t allow her to reject the sofa.
I’ve read the technicians report. Based on this, I’m satisfied that there’s a manufacturing 
fault. The sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied and Creation need to put things 
right here.
Under the relevant legislation – the Consumer Rights Act 2015 – Creation is allowed one 
opportunity to repair the fault. This is what Creation has said it wants to do.
The issue here is that although Creation advised Mrs N that it intended to repair the sofa , it 
didn’t explain what the relevant legislation said about this and as such, Mrs N wasn’t fully 
aware of her consumer rights or of why she couldn’t reject the sofa. Mrs N has said that if 
she had been made aware of her rights, she would have accepted the repair and would have 
had no need to complaint to this service.
On balance, I think Creation could have explained things more clearly. This – as well as the 
delay in arranging the inspection of the sofa – has caused Mrs N unnecessary trouble and 
upset. In the circumstances I think it’s fair to ask Creation to pay compensation.
In relation to the insurance policy, Mrs N has given a clear and consistent testimony that this 
was never set up. Creation hasn’t provided anything to show that the policy came into effect. 
I prefer Mrs N’s version of events about this. I don’t think she should have had to pay for a 
non-existent policy, so this sum should be refunded.
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should arrange for repairs to the sofa, refund the cost of the 
insurance policy and pay compensation of £150 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Limited must:
Arrange for repairs
Refund the insurance policy
Pay compensation of £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3228111
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T complains that carpets that she paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd weren’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs T used a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that she 
electronically signed in January 2020 to pay for some carpets. The amount of credit was 
shown on the loan agreement as £1,403.16 but that was adjusted by £90.72 to correspond 
with the price of the carpets, less the deposit paid by Mrs T, as shown on the order form. 
Mrs T agreed to repay the loan by 24 monthly payments of £58.46. 
The carpets were fitted in February 2020 and Mrs T says that stains started appearing on 
the carpet about two weeks later. She contacted the supplier and it arranged for the carpets 
to be inspected in July 2020. Mrs T arranged for the carpets to be inspected by an 
independent expert in October 2020 but the supplier said that there was no manufacturing or 
fitting fault with the carpet. 
Mrs T complained to Creation Consumer Finance but it hasn’t responded to this service’s 
request for information about Mrs T’s complaint and I’ve not seen any final response letter 
that it sent to Mrs T. The carpets were inspected again in April 2021 and the inspection 
report said that the stains were caused due to localised conditions and not manufacturing 
defects. 
Mrs T complained to this service and said that she was moving from the property in 
December 2021. Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She 
didn’t consider that it was plausible that more than 30 stains would have appeared from 
something being spilt on the surface within three months of the carpet being fitted. She said 
that the carpet wasn’t of satisfactory quality and recommended that Creation Consumer 
Finance should: refund to Mrs T the amount that she’d paid for the independent inspection, 
with interest; give Mrs T a 10% price reduction; and refund Mrs T the cost of the professional 
clean she’d had done.
Creation Consumer Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that it doesn’t agree with our investigator’s recommendations and it has 
provided copies of the July 2020 and April 2021 inspection reports and a response from the 
supplier.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

the carpets were fitted in February 2020 and Mrs T says that stains started appearing 
on them about two weeks later;

the carpet has been inspected three times: in July 2020, in October 2020 which was 
arranged and paid for by Mrs T, and in April 2021 – all of which have included 
pictures of the carpet showing the stains;

the July 2020 inspection report said that the stains were caused by surface damage;

the October 2020 inspection report said:
“there is no clear evidence to support that the staining is as a result of the 
home environment, the stain are numerous and throughout the customers 
property. The stains are aqueous … the carpet cannot be deemed to be 
acceptable …”;

the April 2021 inspection report said that the stains: “… have been caused due to 
localised conditions and not manufacturing defects”;

the supplier says that the October 2020: “ … does not hold up to scrutiny and has 
been rejected by the manufacturer … It has been deemed a biased report”;

Mrs T arranged and paid for the October 2020 report but that doesn’t mean that it’s 
not independent or is biased – and I consider that it’s appropriate for me to consider 
all three reports equally;

this is a finely balanced complaint and the evidence provided by the inspection 
reports is conflicting; 

Mrs T says that the stains first appeared about two weeks after the carpet was fitted 
and the photos show extensive staining of the carpet – there are more than 30 stains 
on the carpet and they are spread randomly and inconsistently across the carpeted 
area and are of different sizes;

I’m not persuaded that it’s likely that the stains have been caused by something 
being spilled on the carpet and there’s no evidence to show what has caused the 
stains;

I consider it to be more likely than not that the stains have been caused as a result of 
an issue with the carpet which caused it not to have been of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Mrs T and I agree that the outcome recommended by our 
investigator is a fair and reasonable way for this complaint to be resolved; and

Creation Consumer Finance didn’t respond to this service’s request for information 
about Mrs T’s complaint and didn’t provide any information until after our investigator 
had made her recommendations – which is likely to have delayed her complaint 
being considered and to have caused further distress and inconvenience for Mrs T.
Putting things right
Mrs T has provided an invoice which shows that she paid £175 for the carpet to be inspected 
by an independent expert in October 2020. She’s also provided an invoice which shows that 
she paid £100 for the carpets to be professionally cleaned before she moved from the 
property because of the stains. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation 
Consumer Finance to reimburse her for those costs, with interest.
Mrs T has now moved from the property so I don’t consider it to be appropriate for the carpet 
to be removed or for her to receive a refund of the cost of the carpet. She has benefitted 
from the carpet for the time since it was fitted until she moved from the property but that 
benefit will have been affected by the stains on it. I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mrs T £138.14 – which is 10% of the cost of the 
carpet as shown on the order form – as compensation for that. 
Although Mrs T is likely to have been caused further distress and inconvenience by Creation 
Consumer Finance’s failure to provide this service with information in response to her 
complaint, I’m not requiring it to pay any compensation to her for that.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs T’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Pay £175 to Mrs T to reimburse her for the cost of the independent inspection.
2.
Pay £100 to Mrs T to reimburse her for the cost of cleaning the carpet.
3.
Pay £138.14 to Mrs T to refund her for 10% of the cost of the carpet.
4.
Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mrs T a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3234397
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Limited hasn’t responded to his claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘Act’) for help with a guaranteed 
faulty solar panel inverter he’d bought on finance.
What happened
Mr H purchased a solar panel system in 2013 from a supplier that I’ll call M. Creation 
financed that purchase. As part of the sale, M provided Mr H with a 10-year insurance-
backed guarantee for the system. Both M and the insurer have since gone bust. In June 
2020, Mr H’s inverter stopped working. He consulted the manufacturer and was told it was 
out of the two-year manufacturer’s warranty. But the error code indicated that it would need 
to be replaced.
Mr H first contacted Creation in mid-June 2020 to make a claim. He was told his claim would 
be passed to the Section 75 team and that they’d be in touch within 5 days. He heard 
nothing and chased this up a number of times over the following month. He still heard 
nothing back and escalated his claim to a complaint. But there was still no response, other 
than Creation’s assertion that it was dealing with the insolvency of one of its suppliers and so 
Mr H would have to wait until his complaint reached the top of the queue.
Mr H brought his complaint to this Service in late July 2020. He waited until September 
2020, but as he still hadn’t heard back from Creation, he got some quotes and decided to get 
the inverter replaced himself. This cost £937.50 (including VAT). As the solar panels hadn’t 
been working for the entire peak summer generation period, he calculated that over the 85 
days’ downtime, he’d lost £196.22 in Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) and export payments.
When we got in touch with Creation to ask for its file, it told us that it had settled Mr H’s 
complaint in April 2020. But it was mistaken, in that it had confused Mr H’s previous solar 
panel misrepresentation complaint with this new one about the inverter.
Our investigator considered Mr H’s complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
thought that he should be paid the cost of the inverter, the lost generation revenue, interest 
on both those amounts and £100 for the distress and convenience that he’d been caused 
through Creation’s failure to answer his claim.
Creation didn’t respond until another of our investigators told the parties that he’d be putting 
the complaint to an ombudsman for a decision. Creation again referred to the offer for the 
misrepresentation complaint. That investigator also told Creation that this was a different 
complaint, whereupon it said that it thought the complaint was out of this Service’s 
jurisdiction on the basis of time, the sale having been concluded more than 6 years ago and 
any rights that Mr H may have had under the Consumer Rights Act also having expired.
Our investigator again informed Creation that this wasn’t a complaint about the sale or the 
satisfactory quality of the inverter, it was about M and the insurer’s failure to answer a 10-
year guarantee which was sold with the solar panel system. That guarantee didn’t expire 
until 2023, so it was still covered by Section 75 of the Act.
Creation didn’t respond to this. So, the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H will be pleased to hear that I shall be upholding his complaint. May I first say though 
how sorry I am that there has been such a long wait for a decision on this matter. This 
Service has received a significant number of complaints about solar panels, which we’ve 
been working through in date order over the last couple of years. And Mr H’s complaint has 
unfortunately been caught up in that back-log.
This complaint is, however, a good example of one where Creation could have been much 
more proactive in addressing its customer’s concerns. Mr H really shouldn’t have needed to 
come to us in the first place if his claim had been dealt with at the time - or at least at some 
point in the last year and a half. It’s also been most unfortunate that Creation doesn’t appear 
to have properly read Mr H’s complaint form or our investigator’s initial view, thinking up until 
recently that this complaint was about something it had dealt with previously.
Jurisdiction 
I’ll first address whether or not this complaint is within our jurisdiction. As our investigator has 
already said, the complaint isn’t about the sale of the solar panels (or the inverter). It 
concerns M and the insurer’s inability to cover the inverter’s failure under the insurance-
backed guarantee following their demise. We’ve not been told by Creation of any reason 
why the inverter shouldn’t be covered by that guarantee. And it doesn’t expire until 2023. 
So, the act or omission complained about here is Creation’s failure to respond to Mr H’s 
Section 75 claim for help by sending someone out to fix or replace the inverter under the 
terms of the guarantee and any warranty provided by M. That failure took place after the 
inverter stopped working in mid-June 2020. The claim and then the complaint were brought 
within a month of that. So, this complaint was brought in time and we do have jurisdiction to 
look into it.
The Broken Inverter
Mr H has provided us with evidence that the inverter has broken as well as an invoice for the 
cost of its replacement. So, I’ve found that he has suffered a loss here. I’ve seen the terms 
of the guarantee and these do purport to cover any failure by M to come out and repair any 
item for which it is responsible. I haven’t seen the warranty that Mr H was given for his 
inverter. And I do know that the manufacturer’s two-year warranty has expired. But in my 
experience, solar panel suppliers often give their own 10-year warranties on panels and 
inverters. That’s likely here to because the insurance-backed guarantee was also for 10 
years. So, it’s my finding that, as I’ve not seen any evidence to the contrary, Mr H had a 10-
year warranty here as well.
Under Section 75 of the Act, Creation is responsible for any contractual agreement made in 
relation to the financed solar panels in the same way that M would have been, had it still 
been around to answer Mr H’s claim. So, Creation needs to take responsibility for the failed 
inverter, the warranty and guarantee having been provided as part of the sale of the panels, 
which was financed by Creation.
Creation has mentioned a settlement agreement that it made with Mr H for a previous 
misrepresentation claim and complaint that he raised. I’ve seen Creation’s offer and Mr H’s 
acceptance of that. But that offer wasn’t made with respect to this claim for the broken 
inverter. In its final response letter to that previous complaint, Creation said that its offer was 
made – ‘in full and final settlement of any issues, complaints or claims your client [Mr H] has 
relating to the sale and/or performance of the system and the finance provided by Creation.’
Although Creation hasn’t raised this, I think I should cover it off in this decision, particularly 
given that Mr H has also recently told us that his voltage optimiser has just failed as well. 
He’ll likely be making a claim to Creation for that shortly. As far as I can tell from the limited 
documentation that we’ve been provided by Creation, the misrepresentation complaint was 
about a mis-sale of the system as a whole. Mr H had been told the panels would be self-
funding. Which they weren’t. Creation made a goodwill settlement offer for that complaint, 
whereby it restructured Mr H’s loan to make it self-funding and refunded him any 
overpayments plus interest.
So, the language I’ve quoted above must be read and interpreted in light of the complaint 
that had been made at the time. My interpretation of it is that Mr H settled any claim he may 
have for the misrepresentations made at the time of the sale. That settlement does not, on 
the face of it, include any problems that Mr H may have with the constituent parts of the solar 
panel system in the future. In this case, Mr H’s claim is under the terms of the guarantee. It 
doesn’t relate to the ‘sale and/or performance’ of the system which I consider must be read 
to mean the misrepresentations made about how the system would provide enough energy 
savings and income to pay for itself. So, I’ve decided that Mr H isn’t prohibited from bringing 
this complaint by the terms of that settlement agreement.
Fair Compensation
I’ve thought about what fair compensation should be here for the loss Mr H has suffered. 
Creation never answered his claim, so I don’t know whether or not it would have agreed to 
pay for the inverter. But Mr H’s complaint about that failure to answer his claim leads to a 
natural conclusion in terms of fair compensation. I consider that the claim should properly 
have been paid. Mr H ended up having to get the inverter replaced himself. He got a 
reasonable quote for this and paid £937.50. From my experience, that’s well within the range 
of the cost of these things.
Mr H also lost the FIT and export income he would have expected over the peak summer 
months. He’s helpfully provided his calculations about the amounts lost. And these appear 
reasonable to me. So, I’ve decided that the financial loss of £196.22 should also be paid by 
Creation.
Mr H lost both these sums in or around September 2020. So, he’s been without that money 
now for well over a year. Creation should compensate him for this by paying 8% interest.
Mr H was also put to the trouble of having to continually chase up this claim. That will have 
been both distressing for him as well as an inconvenience. And I agree with our investigator 
that £100 compensation is appropriate for that.
My jurisdiction decision
I’ve decided that this complaint has been brought to us in time and that we can consider it.
 
My final decision
It’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require that Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited must:

Pay Mr H £937.50 for the replacement inverter;

Pay Mr H £196.22 for the lost revenue from the solar panel system;

Pay Mr H simple interest at 8%* a year on the above amounts from the time that he 
paid for the inverter, in or around September 2020, until they’re repaid; and

Pay Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’s been caused. 
*  HM Revenue and Customs may require that Creation deduct tax from any interest that it 
pays. Should Mr H request it, Creation should provide him with a certificate showing how 
much tax has been taken off so he can reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3235427
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mrs T bought solar panels for her home in February 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mrs T into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs T’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mrs T, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs T was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs T fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs T’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs T from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mrs T is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mrs T in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs T’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs T have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs T and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs T and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs T accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs T has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% 
a year.
If Mrs T has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs T paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs T receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs T paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs T receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs T the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs T first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3241177
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr N has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
What happened
Mr N bought solar panels for his home in April 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr N into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr N’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr N, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr N was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr N fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr N’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr N from the solar 
panels over the 15 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr N is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation need to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr N in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 15 year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr N’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr N 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr N and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr N and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr N accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr N has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% a 
year.
If Mr N has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr N paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr N receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr N paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr N receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr N the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr N first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3241591
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home, which were installed in September 2014. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the 
acts and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to 
the installer misleading Mr C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they 
weren’t, and also installing the panels improperly, which among other things resulted in 
water leaking through his roof and causing damage inside his property.
These issues are no longer in dispute. Creation has accepted that there was a 
misrepresentation at the point of sale, and it has made an offer to restructure Mr C’s loan so 
that over the term of the loan he will not have to pay more than the financial returns from the 
panels. (This restructure is based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, 
taking into account their reduced performance as a result of the negligent installation, and a 
number of assumptions about their future performance.) And Creation also arranged for the 
panels to be removed and re-installed, and the roof mended, which has now been done. 
Finally, Creation offered to pay Mr C £100 for his inconvenience.
Mr C is satisfied that the panels are now working properly. But he says that a couple of 
cables are still loose, as he can hear them blowing against the house when it is windy. He is 
concerned that they might still be susceptible to damage. He also says that it will cost £300 
to repair the water damage that had already accrued inside his home before the roof was 
repaired.
Meanwhile, before Creation had issued its final response, Mr C’s complaint was considered 
by one of our investigators. He agreed that Creation’s offer in relation to the 
misrepresentation was in line with what he would otherwise have recommended and was 
fair. But although the roof had been fixed, Creation had still not addressed the internal 
damage, and so he recommended that Creation either pay Mr C £300 compensation, or 
alternatively instruct and pay its own contractor to remedy the damage. He also thought that 
the £100 for Mr C’s trouble should be increased to £200, because it had taken Creation a 
year to send an engineer to repair the roof.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigator’s opinion (other than to send another copy of its 
original offer), so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because it is not in dispute that the 
panels were misrepresented as being self-funding when they were not, and that the roof was 
damaged as a result of the installation being botched, causing water damage inside the 
property. So it only remains for me to decide on how to fairly put matters right.
Putting things right
Water damage
Since it is clear that the water damage caused to the inside of Mr C’s home is the result of 
the original installation causing the roof to leak, it is only fair that Creation should pay for it. 
The figure of £300 has not been challenged and so I accept it. I order Creation to pay that 
amount, instead of sending its own contractors, as a payment will give the parties a clean 
break. Creation using its own contractors has the potential for further disputes to arise.
Cables
I accept Mr C’s evidence that since the panels were re-installed there has continued to be a 
cable, or cables, loose on the roof. So I direct Creation to arrange for this to be inspected, 
and put right, at no cost to Mr C.
Misrepresentation
Creation’s offer in relation to the misrepresentation of the panels is in line with what I would 
have ordered it to do, if it had not made this offer already. So I endorse this offer in principle, 
but as that offer was made on 18 November 2021, it will be necessary to update the figures 
to reflect the loan payments that have been made since then. So that this decision will be 
enforceable (although I am sure that will not be necessary), I will set out the standard 
approach below.
Creation must recalculate the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and 
income to Mr C from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more 
than that (and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has 
ended).
Since the calculation will show that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, 
then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. I therefore require Creation to restructure 
the loan so as to put Mr C in a position where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the 
ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr C’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
Creation must add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the overpayment to the date 
of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C have the following options 
as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept, by writing A, B, C or D.
Inconvenience
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld earlier, and it should not 
have taken a year to re-install the panels and repair the roof. I direct that Creation must pay 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3242031
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her claim under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Ms P purchased an item of furniture from a retailer and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation. The furniture was broken when it arrived. Ms P complained to the retailer, who 
upheld her complaint and said it would carry out repairs.
Repairs were due to take place in December 2019 but were delayed because parts needed 
to be ordered. The retailer went into administration before the repairs were carried out.
Ms P raised a section 75 claim with Creation. Creation didn’t respond within the timescale 
set by the FCA so Ms P brought her complaint to this service. She says the goods still 
haven’t been repaired and she wants a full refund.
Creation didn’t respond to this service’s request for a case file, so the investigator completed 
the investigation based on the available information. The investigator said that the goods 
weren’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and that there had been a breach of 
contract. The investigator also said that Creation had had long enough to arrange a repair 
which hadn’t happened, so Ms P should be entitled to a full refund together with 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There’s no dispute that Ms P was supplied with a faulty item. Creation hasn’t provided an 
explanation for why it hasn’t arranged a repair.
Based on what I’ve seen, I think creation has had long enough to arrange a repair. Ms P has 
retained the item and hasn’t got room in her house to get a replacement until this matter is 
resolved. I don’t think it’s fair to expect Ms P to wait any longer for a repair.
Putting things right
Because Ms P was supplied with faulty goods, a breach of contract has occurred, and 
Creation must put things right. I think Creation has had a reasonable time to arrange repairs, 
but it hasn’t done so. In the circumstances, I think its fair to ask Creation to issue a full 
refund and pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms P.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Refund the full purchase price of £373.60 plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
Arrange for the goods to be collected at no cost to Ms P or pay Ms P the sum of £50 so she 
can arrange for the goods to be disposed of
Pay compensation of £150 to reflect the delays in resolving the matter and for the trouble 
and upset caused to Ms P
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3247201
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained on behalf of The Estate of Mr F that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
rejected its claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. Mr F was 71 at the point 
of sale and he passed away in 2019. Mr H says that Mr F was in poor health at the time of 
sale and had an equity release mortgage. Mr H doesn’t think the loan was appropriate given 
Mr F’s circumstances. Since Mr F passed away, the property (with the solar panels) has 
been sold.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr F, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. Creation didn’t agree so the 
case was passed to an ombudsman.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this complaint. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr F was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
In deciding what would be appropriate redress, I’ve considered Mr F’s circumstances at the 
time of sale. 
I don’t think it would be appropriate for all the loan payments to be refunded, because Mr F 
will have obtained some benefit from having the solar panels. However, given his age and 
poor health, I think it would be appropriate in this case for the redress to be based on the 
benefit Mr F and his estate is likely to have obtained from the solar panels before the 
property was sold, rather than over the full term of the loan.
My understanding is that Mr F’s solar panels were not registered for the Feed-In Tariff (FIT) 
scheme – so he received no payments from this. As such, Creation should not account for 
FIT payments in its redress calculations. It may only account for the savings Mr F and his 
estate would’ve made on energy bills (from using some of the electricity generated) up until 
the point the property was sold.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr F fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr F’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings to Mr F from the solar panels up until the 
date the property was sold, so Mr F and his estate pay no more than that.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr F’s estate has paid more than it should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse it accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr H by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost neutral from installation until the property was sold.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, the monthly repayments would reduce, meaning 
that Mr F would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as Mr F and his estate would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I expect Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
If the loan has been settled, Creation should pay Mr F’s estate the difference between what 
was paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
Creation’s records suggest some amount of the outstanding balance was written off after 
Mr F passed away. But those records are unclear as to whether the outstanding balance 
was totally written off or if the debt was sold on to a third party. So, Creation should check 
whether any outstanding balance of the loan was sold on to a third party. 
If it was then Creation should ensure that Mr F’s estate is not pursued for this – and that 
Mr F’s estate is reimbursed if it has made any payments to the third party (plus 8% interest 
for the time the estate is without that money). If it was not then Creation should confirm this – 
either in response to this provisional decision, or directly to Mr H after my final decision is 
issued.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mr F 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3252432
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr S has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr S the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr S should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3254913
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P has complained that she was unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s offer of 
settlement for her claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs P bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs P into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. After about two years 
Mrs P re-mortgaged her house and took extra borrowing to pay off the Creation loan. 
Creation made an offer of settlement which meant the solar panels would not cost more than 
the benefit Mrs P would receive from them over a ten-year period. The offer included £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. But the offer didn’t include the additional 
costs incurred by using her mortgage to repay the loan. And Creation sought to limit the 
compensatory interest to the date it initially made the offer.
Mrs P’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought the offer should 
also include compensatory interest to the date of settlement, and the additional costs Mrs P 
incurred by using her mortgage to repay the loan. But the adjudicator thought Creation’s 
offer of £100 compensation was fair.
While Creation said it accepted the adjudicator’s opinion, it did not provide (within a 
reasonable time and despite several reminders) updated calculations to include the 
additional costs of the mortgage. As such I’ve been asked to issue a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for the settlement to include compensatory interest for the whole time Mrs P is 
without the money, and the additional costs she incurred through paying off the loan using 
her mortgage. 
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs P fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs P’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs P from the solar 
panels over a ten-year period so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits. Creation followed this approach with its initial offer. 
Because the calculation shows there is a loss and Mrs P has settled the loan, Creation 
should pay her the difference between what she paid in total and what the loan should have 
been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
Because Mrs P has settled the loan by refinancing (of which Creation now has evidence 
including statements), Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs P paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs P receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs P the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
Creation should also pay £100 compensation as it previously offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs P’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3269699
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t dealt with his claim made under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 for defective goods that he’d purchased via a credit 
agreement fairly. He wants to reject the goods and receive a full refund rather than have 
them repaired.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr K purchased some items of furniture which included a sofa bed from a 
retailer via a fixed sum loan with Creation. The furniture was delivered in March 2020 and Mr 
K says the sofa bed was delivered with damage which he reported to the retailer. He says 
the retailer had agreed to replace it.
Unfortunately, before any action was taken about the damaged sofa bed the retailer ceased 
trading. Mr K contacted Creation to make a claim in July 2020 but there was some confusion 
about what Mr K was disputing and a section 75 claim was opened in December 2020.
Creation arranged for the sofa bed to be inspected by a third-party engineer. They visited Mr 
K’s home in March 2021 and reported that on inspection the sofa bed’s right-hand facing 
arm had not been fitted into its respective brackets and as a result the back of the
sofa had twisted out of shape. They said there was no damage to the sofa bed’s frame or to 
the covering save for a small scratch on the right-hand facing arm pad. The engineer said 
that as they were unable to say how this damage had arisen, they accepted Mr K’s 
explanation that this was how the sofa bed had been delivered.
The engineer said both of these faults could be easily repaired by replacing the mounting 
bracket and adding pigment to the scratch. They estimated the repairs would take around 20 
minutes to undertake and the cost would be around £80. The engineer noted in their report 
that Mr K was happy to proceed by way of the repairs.
Creation sent Mr K its final response in respect of his claim, it said his claim had been 
accepted and that it would pay for the repairs. Mr K was unhappy at this offer and said he 
wanted to reject the sofa bed and receive a full refund. He complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend Mr K’s complaint should be upheld. He said he thought 
the offer of repair was a fair and reasonable offer by Creation. Our investigator said Mr K 
would only be entitled to a full refund if it wasn’t possible to repair or replace the sofa bed. 
Mr K disagrees with our investigator’s view. He says he doesn’t think the suggested repair 
will be adequate and that he bought a new sofa bed but it was delivered damaged. He says 
it would be fair for a full refund to be provided and the sofa bed collected.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 a consumer has, in certain 
circumstances, an equal right to claim against a credit provider and a supplier if there’s been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Here, it isn’t disputed that the sofa 
bed was delivered with damage, so Creation has accepted Mr K’s claim.
The issue for me is whether Creation has dealt with Mr K’s claim fairly. As the retailer is no 
longer trading, they haven’t provided any information to Creation. Mr K says that the retailer 
had agreed to replace the sofa bed but then did not do so as it ceased trading. However, I 
don’t know what the retailer had said to Mr K regarding the sofa bed and in these 
circumstances I think it was reasonable for Creation to arrange for the sofa bed to be 
inspected in order to ascertain what was wrong with it.
Although Mr K said the leather on the sofa bed had been torn and the brackets broken, the 
engineer’s report sets out the issues they found were ones that could be relatively easily 
repaired and minor in nature. Looking at the photos provided with the report, the sofa bed 
looks to be in very good condition, and I agree with the engineer that there’s a small scratch 
rather than a cut to the leather on the arm pad.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, if goods are supplied that aren’t of satisfactory quality 
then the consumer has certain rights as to how the matter should be resolved which include 
a short term right to reject the goods in the first 30 days if they are faulty. Here, although I 
appreciate Mr K raised the matter with the retailer first, I don’t know whether that was to 
exercise this right. And I’ve also seen that the faults with the sofa bed are minor and easily 
fixed. So, in these circumstances I think that Creation acted reasonably in investigating the 
matter to find a fair and proportionate solution. I don’t think rejecting the sofa at this point 
would be reasonable when the fix is straight forward, and its overall condition is so good. 
The engineer who inspected it has described it as being in “excellent condition”. And, 
although I appreciate Mr K feels that he should be entitled to a new sofa bed I think that 
would be disproportionate and unreasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate Mr K doesn’t think the repair will be adequate, but I haven’t any reason to think 
that what the engineer has said is required to repair the sofa bed isn’t correct. However, if 
Creation is unable to repair the sofa bed satisfactorily then Mr K would be entitled to seek 
replacement and if that is not possible then a refund. 
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr K, I’m not upholding his 
complaint. Creation has fairly accepted responsibility for repairing the sofa bed and I think 
this is a fair and reasonable outcome and I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I’m not upholding Mr K’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3271571
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 7 years old and had covered 
mileage of around 28,400 miles.
Mr S experienced faults with the car a few days after getting it. The wheels wobbled when 
braking, the brake pad warning light illuminated, and the steering wheel juddered. Mr S also 
discovered that the rear windows and locks didn’t work. Mr S reported these issues to the 
supplying dealer. It said the brake pads were the cause of the wheel wobble and that these 
were wear and tear items. It said it couldn’t find any faults with the car.
Mr S continued to experience these issues. He obtained an independent inspection of the 
car, which found wheel wobble, vibration, brake light illuminated and rear windows 
inoperative.
Mr S replaced the tyres and brake pads on the car. This resolved the wheel wobble and 
vibration issues. He obtained a further independent report which confirmed a fault with the 
rear windows.
Mr S complained to Creation. He asked for the car to be repaired, or to be allowed to reject 
it. In response, Creation said that tyres and brake pads were perishable items which would 
not be expected to be new on a second hand car. Creation offered £240 towards the cost of 
the tyres as a gesture of goodwill and said that Mr S would have to obtain an independent 
report showing that the faults were present at the point of supply. 
Mr S wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said there was a fault with the car which had 
occurred within the first 6 months as evidenced by the independent report, and in respect of 
which the business hadn’t offered repairs. The investigator said that Mr S should be allowed 
to reject the car, and that he should receive a refund of 10% of all payments he’d made to 
reflect impaired use. The investigator also said that Mr S should be refunded for the repairs 
he'd paid for, and for the reports he’d obtained, and that he should be paid compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it would agree to the uphold provided that a usage fee was 
applied, which it said it had calculated at £6,769.25. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a  second hand car to have 
a degree of wear and tear, so in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied 
that there was a fault with the car at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault caused by 
general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and it’s up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the 
repair isn’t successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
An engineer’s report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. Mr S has 
obtained two reports. The first report, dated September 2020, states that the car has serious 
vibration issues when braking and wheel wobble. It states that the brake warning light is 
illuminated and that the rear windows don’t operate. This inspection was carried out around 
one month after Mr S got the car, so its persuasive evidence that the faults were present at 
the point of supply. The second report, dated April 2021, states that the rear windows and 
locks are inoperable. It also states that the daytime running lights aren’t working and that 
there’s a fault with the parking sensor. The engineer thought these faults might be related to 
corrosion in the central junction box.
Based on what I’ve seen in the reports, I’m satisfied that there were faults with the car and 
that these occurred in the first 6 months. Creation asked Mr S to obtain an independent 
report to show that the faults were present at the point of supply, but I don’t think a further 
report is necessary. Under the relevant legislation, faults which occurred in the first 6 months 
are presumed to be present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the business to 
show otherwise.
I’ve taken the nature of the faults into account when considering whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality. Mr S has already replaced the tyres and brakes and hasn’t experienced 
any further issues with these. Creation said these were perishable items and that wear and 
tear was to be expected. Whilst I agree that tyres and brakes are serviceable items, I don’t 
think its reasonable that Mr S was supplied with a car with warped brake pads which caused 
wheel wobble and vibration. For this reason, I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied.
I can see from the engineering reports that the rear windows and locks don’t operate. Mr S 
hasn’t had repairs caried out to these. These items aren’t perishable, and the reports show 
that the faults were present in the first 6 months. So again, for this reason, I don’t think the 
car was of satisfactory quality.
Taking everything into account, I’m satisfied that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when 
supplied. From what I’ve seen, Creation hasn’t offered to repair the faults. I think Creation 
has had reasonable opportunity to arrange repairs, and I don’t think its fair to expect Mr S to 
pay for repairs himself, or to wait any longer. Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr S has been able to use the car throughout, but the rear windows and locks are still not 
working. This has impacted on Mr S’s use of the car as it has safety and security 
implications. In the circumstances, I think its reasonable to ask Creation to refund 10% of all 
payments made by Mr S to reflect impaired use.
Mr S has had to pay for repairs to the brakes even thought this is a fault which the business 
should have put right by carrying out repairs. Mr S has also had to pay for two reports, which 
again is something I think the business should have paid for because the faults arose in the 
first 6 months. Creation should refund Mr S these costs.
Its clear that Mr S has suffered a significant degree of distress and inconvenience as a result 
of being supplied with a car which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. Creation should pay 
compensation of £150 in recognition of this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund the deposit of £2300
Refund 10% of all rental payments
Refund £518.14 for repair costs and report costs
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £240 towards the tyres (if not already paid)
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mr S’s credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3274441
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Creation.
In October 2019 Mr L noticed that the heater wasn’t working. In November 2019 a warning 
light illuminated indicating that the coolant was low.
Mr L says he contacted the dealership but didn’t receive a response. In December 2019 he 
raised a section 75 claim with Creation.
Creation investigated and contacted the broker. It said that the dealership had asked to 
inspect the car, but Mr L had refused. Based on this information, creation rejected the 
section 75 claim. It said the car needed to be inspected and that Mr L should contact the 
dealership to arrange this.
Mr L wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. He’s explained that the 
car went into limp mode in November 2020 and he hasn’t been able to use it since. 
Creation responded to the investigation by this service and said it thought the dealership 
should be allowed to inspect the car as the fault hadn’t been diagnosed.
Our investigator didn’t uphold Mr L’s complaint at first. She said there wasn’t enough 
evidence to show that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality and recommended that Creation 
arranged an inspection.
Mr L contacted this service to let us know that Creation had been in touch with him to 
arrange an inspection. But he explained that the car wasn’t working, and he couldn’t afford to 
transport the car to the inspection site.
Following this, another investigator reviewed the complaint. She found that Creation still 
hadn’t arranged an inspection and she didn’t think it was fair to expect Mr L to wait any 
longer or to provide more evidence. The investigator said that the heating and coolant issues 
had occurred in the first 6 months and that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. The investigator said that Mr L should be allowed to reject the car and receive a 
refund of all payments made since November 2020, as he hadn’t been able to use the car 
since then. She also said that Mr L should receive a refund of 10% of all payment made from 
July 2019 to November 2020 to reflect the impaired use caused by the heater not working 
and the coolant leaking. She also said that Creation should pay compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr L’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract and that Creations response to the claim wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied.  If this isn’t 
the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
There hasn’t been an independent inspection of the car in this case. Given that the issues 
with the heater and the coolant occurred within the first 6 months, there’s a presumption that 
the issues were present at the point of supply and I think Creation should have arranged an 
inspection. It’s not clear why an inspection still hasn’t taken place, as Creation hasn’t 
provided an explanation. I’m of the view that Creation should’ve done more to arrange the 
inspection within a reasonable time.
The only available engineering evidence is a report from Mr L’s local garage dated October 
2020. This states that the coolant levels were low and that the engine was misfiring.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there’s a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and it’s up to the 
business to put things right. The business is allowed one attempt at repair. If the repair isn’t 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Based on what I’ve seen, the faults with the heater and the coolant occurred in the first four 
months. The presumption that these faults were point of supply faults therefore applies and 
it’s up to the business to put things right.
There’s a dispute between Mr L and the dealership as to whether an inspection was offered 
by the dealership. I haven’t seen any evidence that the dealership offered to arrange an 
inspection, or to repair the faults. I prefer Mr L’s version of events, which is that he reported 
the faults more than once, but no inspection or repair was offered. Because of this, I’m 
satisfied that the dealership was given a reasonable opportunity to repair the faults but failed 
to do so.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. This means that there has been a breach of contract and Creation must take steps to 
put things right.
I’ve already said that the dealership has had the opportunity to repair the car and failed to do 
so. Having regard to the relevant legislation, Mr L should be allowed to reject the car.
Mr L hasn’t been able to use the car since it broke down in November 2020. I don’t think its 
fair to expect Mr L to pay for a car he can’t use, so all of his payments made since this date 
must be refunded.
Mr L has said that he only realised the heater wasn’t working when he tried to turn it on in 
the winter. I think it’s likely that the heater wasn’t working before this. Mr L also had to keep 
topping up the coolant. As a result of these issues, Mr L has suffered impaired use of the 
car. He should receive a refund of 10% of payment made from the start of the agreement to 
November 2020.
Mr L has explained that he’s had to use public transport since the car broke down in 
November 2020, which has impacted on his employment an caused him inconvenience. I 
think its fair to ask Creation to pay compensation to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr L
Refund all payments made by Mr L since 1 November 2020
Refund 10% of all payments made from the start of the agreement to 31 October 2020
Pay 8% simple interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr L’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3280566
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd started charging interest at the end of 
a buy now pay later period without warning her that it would do so.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs G made a purchase with the help of a loan from Creation. The loan was 
provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant that, if Mrs G repaid the loan in full on 
or before 19 May 2021, she would not have to pay any interest. Otherwise, interest would be 
applied from the date of the loan.  
Mrs G did not repay the loan by the end of the buy now pay later period and Creation wrote 
to her to say that it was adding interest of more than £800 to the loan. 
Mrs G complained to Creation about what had happened. It said that it had sent a reminder 
in April 2021 that the buy now pay later period was coming to an end. Mrs G said she had 
not received any such reminder. 
Mrs G referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
was satisfied that Creation had sent a reminder as it said it had. He noted too that the end of 
the buy now pay later period had been set out in the credit agreement itself and in a letter 
sent to Mrs G when she took out the credit. He did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld.
Mrs G did not accept the investigator’s recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G does not dispute that the buy now pay later period on her credit agreement ended on 
19 May 2021. She says though that Creation should have reminded her that it was coming to 
an end. 
I agree that Creation was under a duty to send a reminder as Mrs G says. The Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Handbook says, at CONC 6.7.16A, that in cases such as Mrs G’s a 
reminder should be sent in an “appropriate medium”. As the investigator noted, Creation is 
not able to provide a copy of any letter sent to Mrs G, but it has provided a template letter 
and an extract from its internal systems indicating that it was sent. Its records indicate that it 
had the correct address for Mrs G. On balance therefore I think it more likely than not that a 
letter was sent to remind Mrs G that the buy now pay later period was coming to an end. I 
believe too that it was appropriate to contact Mrs G by letter.
I accept that it’s possible – although unlikely – that the letter was not safely delivered or that 
Mrs G overlooked it. But Creation’s obligation was to send it, and I am satisfied it did that.
Mrs G also said that the retailer had agreed a refund of £99 in respect of items she had 
returned. I am satisfied that this was applied on 23 September 2020.     
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs G’s complaint and do not 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3280780
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased a fridge freezer from a retailer and entered into a finance agreement with 
Creation.
Mrs M experienced problems with the freezer not freezing properly. She reported this to the 
retailer, who arranged for an inspection and agreed that it was faulty. The retailer said it 
would arrange for the fridge freezer to be collected and issue a refund.
In the meantime, Mrs M purchased a new fridge from the retailer. She didn’t have room for 
two fridges and asked the retailer to arrange collection of the old fridge. The retailer told Mrs 
M to ask the driver who was delivering her new fridge to collect the old one. In November 
2020, Mrs M’s new fridge was delivered, and the old fridge was collected.
Mrs M didn’t receive a refund, so she contacted the retailer. The retailer said it had no record 
of the old fridge being collected and said it couldn’t issue a refund.
Mrs M was unhappy about this and raised a section 75 claim with Creation. In response, 
Creation said that because there was no evidence that the fridge had been collected, it was 
rejecting the claim.
Miss M brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint on the grounds that the retailer had supplied Mrs M 
with an item which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. The investigator said it was likely that Mrs M 
had returned the faulty item and recommended that Creation issue a full refund.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigators view so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs M’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 
wasn’t fair or reasonable.
Mrs M has said that the fridge freezer was faulty. The relevant law says that goods must be 
of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a 
breach of contract can be said to have occurred and I’d expect the business to put things 
right. 
I’ve looked at the available evidence. The retailer accepted that the fridge freezer was faulty. 
This establishes that there was a breach of contract, because the goods weren’t of 
satisfactory quality.
The real issue in this case is whether the faulty item has been returned. Mrs M has said that 
it was collected by the retailer’s delivery driver when her new fridge was delivered. However, 
the retailer has said that there’s no record of the fridge being returned.
Mrs M has provided evidence that she was advised by the retailer to return the fridge via the 
delivery driver. Her testimony about this has been clear and consistent. On the balance of 
probability, I think it’s likely that Mrs M did return the fridge via the delivery driver. I’m 
persuaded that it wouldn’t have been possible for Mrs M to store two fridge freezers in her 
home because these are large items. I don’t think Mrs M had any reason not to do what the 
retailer had advised her to do i.e. return the fridge via the delivery driver when he delivered 
her new fridge. It would not have benefitted Mrs M to retain a faulty fridge. In the 
circumstances, I think its more likely that the fridge was returned and that the retailer can’t 
locate the relevant paperwork.
Putting things right
I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract and I don’t think Creations response to 
the section 75 claim was fair or reasonable. Creation must refund the total cost of the fridge 
freezer plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must refund 
Mrs M the sum of £399 together with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement. It must also remove any adverse information from Mrs M’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3281648
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed over 53,000 miles so I think a reasonable person 
would expect it to have some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the car’s 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr M has provided evidence from an independent garage that demonstrates there were 
faults with this car noted within 30 days of supply. The Engine Management Light was on 
and there were fault codes recorded relating to the Exhaust Gas Recirculation, crank shaft 
sensor and broken wires.
Creation haven’t provided any evidence to demonstrate these faults were not present when 
the car was supplied so I’m satisfied they most probably were.
In those circumstances, as faults had been identified so soon, it may have been possible for 
Mr M to have rejected the car at that point. But the relevant legislation explains that when 
repairs are accepted as a resolution the consumer can’t subsequently change their mind. Mr 
M accepted all the repairs and subsequently arranged his own, successful repair to the car. 
So, I don’t think Creation need to allow Mr M to reject the car, but they should ensure he isn’t 
out of pocket as a result of the car being of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
Creation should refund the cost of the repairs Mr M has had completed to the car if he can 
provide them with receipts or demonstrate the expenses through bank statements. They’ll 
need to add interest to any refunds as Mr M has been deprived of the money.
Mr M has explained that he wasn’t provided with a courtesy car for the periods when the car 
was being repaired. Creation will need to clarify with Mr M and the dealer when the car was 
off the road being repaired. They’ll need to provide a pro rata refund of finance instalments 
for any period Mr M was without the use of the car and they will need to add interest to any 
refund.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. He’s had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think, had Creation been more responsive, it could have been resolved 
earlier. He’s also had to have his car recovered by breakdown services and I can see he’s 
explained the impact all this has had on his mental health. In the circumstances I think 
Creation should pay him £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund the cost of the repairs and diagnostics Mr M has had completed to the car if 
he can provide them with receipts or demonstrate the expenses through bank 
statements. Add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.

Clarify with Mr M and the dealer when the car was off the road being repaired. 
Provide a pro rata refund of finance instalments for any period Mr M was without the 
use of the car and add 8% simple interest per year to those refunds from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr M £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3281985
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a damaged fridge freezer.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required chain is in place and that leaves me to consider whether there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
I have reviewed the photos and the videos of the fridge and I can see that it has a series of 
dents on the side panel. Like our investigator I am satisfied that these are dents and not 
some trick of the light as Creation and the supplier seem to have suggested. This is 
reinforced by the fact that Mr W and his partner notified the merchant immediately they 
unwrapped the fridge that it was damaged and they asked for a refund at that time. 
Consumer law entitled Mr W be allowed the reject the fridge and it is not clear why this didn’t 
happen.
I believe the matter is fairly straightforward. The goods Mr W ordered were damaged and he 
was entitled to reject them. This was not offered by either the merchant or by Creation.  I 
have noted Mr W was offered a 10% reduction as a goodwill gesture, but I do not consider 
that to be adequate. It seems that Mr W’s secondary complaint about the noise coming from 
the fridge took precedence and the manufacturer, the merchant and Creation addressed this 
without properly dealing with the fact the fridge was noticeably dented
Our investigator put a proposed solution to Mr W and Creation, but it has not responded and 
so I am issuing this formal decision in order that the matter be brought to a close and 
matters not further delayed. I believe Mr W has accepted this proposal and so I am happy 
agree.
Putting things right
Mr W should be allowed to reject the fridge freezer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

arrange for the fridge freezer to be collected from Mr W and replaced with a new 
fridge freezer (if the product in question is no longer available, then a suitable 
alternative should be agreed with Mr W),

remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr W’s credit file

calculate what Mr W has paid to date in total and deduct that amount from the capital 
amount. If this means that Mr W has paid Creation more than he borrowed, Creation 
should refund this amount to him, along with 8% simple annual interest a year from 
the date of the payments to the date of the refund*.

If this means that Mr W still owes Creation any money, then he should repay this. 
Interest can start being accrued once the fridge freezer is replaced.
*HMRC requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3283157
--------------------------

The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains about the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to a 
claim made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The claim was made in 
relation to a regulated fixed sum loan agreement provided as part of a Green Deal Plan to 
partially fund the purchase of solar panels.
What happened
Sadly, since this complaint was originally brought to us, Mrs B has passed away. I would like 
to start by expressing my condolences to her family. Her estate is represented by her 
daughter, Ms K, who also acted as Mrs B’s representative when dealing with Creation.
In 2017, Mrs B was sold some solar panels by a third party. The solar panels were to be 
funded through a Green Deal Plan and this involved Creation providing a loan of just under 
£5,000. 
In 2020, Ms K contacted Creation to raise a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. She followed this up with a number of emails, but she says she did not receive a 
substantive response. So, a complaint about this was brought to this service.
Since then, Creation has provided a copy of the response it says it sent to Ms K at the time 
of the claim. This offers to cancel the agreement, refunding all of the payments made under 
the agreement, with interest. But, whilst Ms K was satisfied with the offer and accepted it as 
settlement of Mrs B’s claim, she remains unhappy with Creation’s handling of the claim.
Our Investigator noted the offer letter is not dated, and Creation has provided no evidence 
that it was previously sent. She also noted that Ms K had continued to chase Creation for a 
response for a number of months before the complaint was brought to this service. As such, 
the Investigator considered the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that Ms K had 
not received the offer and she felt that Mrs B would have suffered trouble and upset due to 
the lack of resolution, especially at a time when she was receiving palliative end of life care. 
So, she recommended Creation pay Mrs B’s estate £300 to reflect this. 
Creation did not respond, so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn’t clear whether Creation sent its response to the claim prior to Ms K referring this 
complaint to this service. However, it does seem clear that Ms K hadn’t received this and 
that Creation ought to have been aware of that. Ms K continued to chase for a response, and 
I don’t think she would’ve done this if she’d received it.
I think Mrs B would’ve likely been aware that this matter hadn’t been resolved, and I have no 
doubt this would’ve caused her upset. She was at the time seriously ill and would likely have 
been concerned about the state of her finances given her circumstances. Knowing that this 
claim was outstanding would not have helped matters. 
I think this situation was avoidable. Either Creation should have responded to the claim 
promptly or, if it did send a response, it should have resent this to Ms K when it became 
clear it hadn’t been received. So, I think Creation should compensate Mrs B’s estate for the 
trouble and upset which was caused to Mrs B.
Putting things right
If it has not already settled the late Mrs B’s claim, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should do 
so in the manner agreed. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd also pay the estate of Mrs B £300 to compensate for the 
trouble and upset caused to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3284995
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mrs P purchased an integrated television bed from a retailer and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
The bed was delivered to Mrs P’s son’s address. Soon after delivery, Mrs P’s son 
experienced issues with the television not turning on automatically when it was raised. He 
reported the issue to the retailer who arranged for the bed to be inspected. Mrs P’s son 
received conflicting information from the technicians as to whether the television was faulty 
or not.
Mrs P wasn’t satisfied with the outcome of the inspection and contacted Creation to raise a 
section 75 claim.
In response, Creation said it had spoken to the retailer, who advised that the television was 
working as it should. Based on this, Creation rejected the section 75 claim.
Mrs P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He looked at the retailer’s terms and conditions and 
said that the television supplied was of reduced functionality and therefore not of an equal 
standard. He recommended that Creation replaced the television with one that automatically 
turned on when raised.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it didn’t think it had an obligation to deal with the claim under 
section 75 because the credit agreement was in the name of Mrs P but the television bed 
had been supplied to her son. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs P’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the section 75 claim wasn’t 
fair or reasonable. 
In order to satisfy the requirements to bring a section 75 claim, there has to be a debtor – 
creditor-supplier relationship. In this case, it was Mrs P who entered into the finance 
agreement and the goods were delivered to her son’s address. Creation has said that 
because of this, there’s been a break in the DCS relationship. I’ve thought about this. But 
Mrs P’s son’s name doesn’t appear on any of the contractual documents, such as the 
invoice. On the evidence, Mrs P entered into the contract and became the debtor under the 
finance agreement and had the goods delivered to a different address. Mrs P’s son’s name 
isn’t on the invoice or the contract with the retailer, so I’m satisfied that the DCS requirement 
is met here.
I’ve gone on to consider whether there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Mrs P’s son 
has said that when the television bed was demonstrated to him in store, the television 
automatically turned itself on when it raised from the bed. But the television supplied with his 
bed doesn’t do this and he has to turn it on manually.
Creation has said that two types of television are supplied with the bed, one which turns on 
automatically and one which isn’t. It said the type of television wasn’t guaranteed at the point 
of supply.
I’ve looked at the terms and conditions of the contract. Under product specification, it says 
the retailer may supply goods with minor differences in specification and that where this is 
the case, any differences will result in the goods being of equal or improved standard. 
Creation has said that these terms mean that the retailer is allowed to supply a different type 
of television. I disagree. The television supplied here is not of an equal or improved 
standard, because it has reduced functionality insofar as it doesn’t turn on automatically. 
Because of this, I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract.  
Putting things right
To put things right, creation should arrange for the television to be replaced with a television 
which automatically turns on when it is raised from the bed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
arrange for the television to be replaced with a model which turns on automatically when 
raised.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3286760
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited won’t refund to her the money that 
she paid for a dishwasher.
What happened
Mrs J used a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that she electronically 
signed in October 2020 to pay for some items, including a dishwasher. The price of the 
dishwasher was £217.55 and it was delivered in December 2020 but Mrs J says that when it 
was unpackaged in March 2021 the door was damaged. She complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance and it contacted the supplier which said that Mrs J raised the issues over 
three months after the delivery which was an unreasonable time frame to raise a delivery 
damage claim. Mrs J wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
evidence indicated that Mrs J was supplied with a dishwasher that was damaged and that a 
breach of contract had taken place due to the goods being of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. She recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should: refund the full cost of 
£217.55 and/or finance payments made towards it; refund all interest and associated 
charges charged on the item; pay interest on all finance payments made towards the item; 
and arrange and pay for collection of the dishwasher.
Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t responded to our investigator’s recommendations so this 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mrs J’s complaint should be upheld for 
these reasons:

Mrs J paid for the dishwasher using a credit agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance and in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or 
the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;

to be able to uphold Mrs J’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Creation Consumer Finance‘s response to her claim under section 75 wasn’t 
fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mrs J’s claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mrs J ordered the dishwasher in October 2020 and the price of it of £217.55 was 
added to her credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance;

the dishwasher was delivered in December 2020 and Mrs J says that she visually 
checked the packaging which showed no problems but didn't open the packaging at 
that time as her kitchen was being renovated - but when she removed the packaging 
in March 2021 the dishwasher door was damaged; 

Mrs J has provided photos showing the damage and she complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance but it said that the supplier had said that Mrs J had raised the 
issues over three months after the delivery which was an unreasonable time frame to 
raise a delivery damage claim;

Mrs J says that she had to buy another dishwasher to complete her kitchen 
renovation;

the photos clearly shows the partially unpackaged dishwasher and the damage to the 
door – and I consider it to be more likely than not that the dishwasher was damaged 
when it was delivered to Mrs J;

Mrs J has explained why the dishwasher wasn’t unpackaged soon after it was 
delivered and I’m not persuaded that it was unreasonable that she didn’t notice the 
damage until she unpackaged the dishwasher in March 2021 or that there was an 
unreasonable delay in her delivery damage claim in these circumstances – and I’ve 
not been provided with any evidence to show that the damage was caused after the 
dishwasher was delivered to Mrs J;

I consider that the damage to the dishwasher causes the dishwasher not to have 
been of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mrs J which would be a breach 
of contract by the supplier for which Creation Consumer Finance would be jointly 
liable under section 75; and

I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to take the 
actions described below.
Putting things right
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should rework Mrs J’s credit account as if the 
payment of £217.55 hadn’t been made in October 2020. I find that it should also take the 
other actions described below, including arranging for the dishwasher to be collected from 
Mrs J at no cost to her. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs J’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Rework Mrs J’s credit account as if the payment of £217.55 hadn’t been made in 
October 2020, and - if that puts the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual 
rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account was in credit 
- it should also refund the credit balance to Mrs J.
2.
If Mrs J has repaid the £217.55 (or any part of it) to Creation Consumer Finance but 
doesn’t have a credit balance, to pay interest on the amount that she’s repaid at an 
annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
3.
Arrange for the dishwasher to be collected from Mrs J, at no cost to her.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payments referred to above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mrs J a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3287515
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss S believes Creation Consumer Finance Ltd acted irresponsibly by agreeing a loan 
she’d applied for.
What happened
In February 2018, Miss S purchased replacement windows and doors from a company I’ll 
call E. And she took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for the goods and 
installation. The loan was for £7,091 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £181.17.
Miss S has complained Creation didn’t act responsibly when approving the loan. She said 
the salesperson for E pressured her into purchasing something she couldn’t afford, and she 
thinks this unaffordability should’ve been obvious to Creation. She’s also complained about 
the interest rate and the “extortionate costs” associated with the loan.
Miss S was also unhappy with the installation work done by E. She’s said that the installation 
wasn’t completed correctly, and what work was carried out was done to a poor standard.
As E had ceased trading, Creation referred Miss S to E’s insurer, who arranged for the work 
that’d been carried out to be inspected. The inspection company, who I’ll call R, agreed that 
rectification work needed completing, which they would do. But they also said a door needed 
replacing, but they couldn’t do this as they only dealt with repairs and not replacement. 
Miss S wasn’t happy with the response she’d had from Creation, and she brought her 
complaint to us for investigation.
Creation have said they’re unable to provide copies of the credit check or income validation 
check they carried out at the time Miss S’s application was approved. But they’ve provided 
screen shots showing what they recorded for Miss S’s income and expenditure at the time. 
And, based on this, they considered the loan was affordable.
However, our investigator said she was unable to see if what Creation had recorded was an 
accurate representation of Miss S’s financial circumstances, because they couldn’t evidence 
the checks they’d done. So, she considered Miss S’s bank statements and an up to date 
copy of her credit report, which showed the information that would’ve been present at the 
time of the application.
Based on this information, the investigator said Miss S’s income was lower than Creation 
had recorded, and her monthly expenditure was higher. And she’d seen nothing to show that 
Creation had asked Miss S about her living costs. Because of this, the investigator didn’t 
think that the loan was affordable for Miss S
So, she said that Creation should refund any difference between the amount she’d paid to 
date and what she’d originally borrowed, plus interest. She also thought that Creation should 
remove any negative information about the loan from Miss S’s credit file.
The investigator also said that, given R’s report, she was satisfied there was a problem with 
the installation. And it was clear what work needed to be done to rectify this. So, she said 
Creation should arrange for the repairs and the door replacement to take place and pay Miss 
S an additional £300 for the distress and inconvenience she’d been caused.
Miss S didn’t agree with the investigator. She said that she’s since discovered the windows 
didn’t need to be changed, only the glass. She also said she had to take multiple days off 
work to meet with E to discuss the poor installation, and this stopped her being able to sell 
her house. So, she thinks that the recommended £300 is insufficient for the stress she’s had 
to deal with.
Miss S said she thought the whole amount of the loan should be refunded, and not just the 
interest. And she provided payslips to show her income, so that the cost of her time off work 
could be calculated. Based on this, the investigator recommended that Creation increase the 
compensation to £500 and pay Miss S an additional £1,344 for the time she needed to take 
off work to meet with E about the poor quality installation. Which Miss S agreed with.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigator. Because of this, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
approval of the loan
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide what’s fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1.
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
S would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a.
if so, did Creation make a fair lending decision?
b.
if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2.
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Creation didn’t act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss S’s 
application, I’ll also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
There’s no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but I’d expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers’ personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Creation haven’t been able to provide the details of the checks they did when they approved 
the loan for Miss S. While they’ve said they did a credit check and verified her income, due 
to the time passed they no longer have this information available. But they have provided 
details of the information they recorded from these checks.
Creation recorded that Miss S was a full-time employee, who’d been with her current 
employer for 14 years, and had an income of £63,000 a year (which they’ve said they 
would’ve validated). They recorded her monthly expenditure as £181.17 for a loan and 
£1,568 for her mortgage. But they’d not recorded any information about Miss S’s other 
expenditure, for example council tax and utility bills. Based on this information, Creation 
approved the loan.
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit file from September 2021. This shows that, at the 
time she applied for the loan with Creation, she had the loan and mortgage Creation had 
recorded. But it also shows she’d exceeded the credit limit on one of her credit cards.
As Creation haven’t been able to provide evidence of the checks they’ve done, I can’t say 
whether these checks were reasonable and proportionate. But the credit check they did 
would likely have shown Miss S had recently exceeded her credit card limit. Which could be 
an indicator of financial difficulties.
What’s more, although the loan payments were relatively small in comparison to Miss S’s 
income, I don’t think this is enough to say it was affordable. And I’d expect Creation to obtain 
full details of Miss S’s regular expenditure to ensure affordability. 
Because of the above, I don’t think Creation should’ve approved this loan without carrying 
out any additional checks.
Would any additional checks Creation could’ve done have shown that Miss S could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
Miss S has provided us with her bank statements for the period 15 December 2017 to 13 
February 2018. If Creation had asked for more information about Miss S’s income and 
expenditure, then these bank statements give a good indication of what Creation would likely 
have discovered.
The bank statements show Miss S had an average monthly income of £3,170. Her mortgage 
was £1,667 and her loan was £116. However, Miss S was also paying an average of £437 to 
her credit cards, £234 for council tax and utility bills, and £101 for insurances and 
professional fees. In addition, Miss S was paying £15 for a mobile phone, £10 in overdraft 
fees, and £225 repaying a loan from a family member.
So, based on the bank statements, after paying her £2,805 monthly outgoings, she would be 
left with £365 for transport, food, clothing, and to cover Creation’s monthly payment of £181. 
Miss S has said she paid £224 a month in public transport costs alone.
The banks statements also show that Miss S was regularly overdrawn. Miss S has provided 
credit card statements for the same period as the bank statements, and these show she’d 
exceeding her credit limit on one card and was near her limit on the other card.
Taking all of this into consideration, if Creation had obtained full details of Miss S’s monthly 
expenditure, it would’ve been clear that the loan wasn’t affordable. So, I’m satisfied that 
Creation shouldn’t have approved this loan.
Did Creation act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I haven’t seen anything to make me think Creation acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
quality of the goods and the installation work
Miss S has raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. One 
effect of section 75 is that (subject to certain limitations), a person who pays a supplier for 
goods or services with their credit card can claim against the card issuer if the supplier 
doesn’t keep to the agreement or misrepresents it.
My role isn’t to apply section 75 here. Rather, I’m required to decide what, if anything, 
Creation should do to resolve Miss S’s complaint. In doing that, I must decide what I think is 
fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law 
includes section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the goods should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied/installed. And if it wasn’t, as the creditor, Creation jointly liable under section 
75 for breach of contract or misrepresentation. What’s satisfactory is determined by things 
such as what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, 
and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed that the fault was present when 
the goods were supplied and installed, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a 
fault is identified after the first six months, it’s implied that it’s for Miss S to show that it was 
present when the goods were supplied and installed. So, if I thought the goods were faulty 
when Miss S took possession of them, or that they weren’t installed with reasonable care 
and skill, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
Miss S has provided photos of the issues with the door and windows that were installed by 
E, as well as of the damage that was done during the fitting process. She’s also provided an 
undated report from E, detailing the rectification work that needed to be done, due to 
damaged frames and incorrect fitting. While this report is undated, based on what I’ve seen, 
I believe the inspection took place in June 2018, shortly after the installation took place.
I’ve also seen a copy of the report from R, dated 26 November 2021. This says that the door 
was bowed, and the frame not fitted very well. And this means Miss S has problems locking 
and unlocking the door. It also says the door isn’t what Miss S ordered, was lacking the 
required drainage holes, and was damaged on installation. With regards to the windows, the 
report says there was an ongoing issue with faulty hinges on one window, and the sealant 
was split and damaged on others. R said that repair works were needed to the windows, but 
a replacement door would be required.
Based on this evidence, I’m satisfied the windows and door weren’t installed with reasonable 
care and skill. And Creation need to do something to put things right.
Putting things right
As I don’t think the finance should’ve been approved, I’ve thought about how to put Miss S 
back in the position he would’ve been in if this hadn’t happened. But I’ve also taken into 
consideration that Miss S had the benefit of the money she borrowed, by way of the 
replacement windows and door. So, while Miss S thinks the whole loan should be refunded 
to her, I’m satisfied she should pay back the capital amount she borrowed.
Miss S also considered the loan was mis-sold to her by E. As I don’t think this should’ve 
been approved, and because I’m asking Creation to put this right, I won’t also be considering 
any potential mis-sale.
With regards to any compensation, under section 75, I need to consider what a court would 
likely award in similar circumstances. 
Miss S has lived with the poor installation for more than three years, during which time she’s 
struggled with closing windows and locking her door. The poor fitting has also caused drafts 
throughout her house. So, I’m satisfied she’s been significantly impacted by what happened 
and has been caused both inconvenience and physical discomfort. Given this, I’m satisfied 
that the £500 recommended by the investigator is reasonable in the circumstances.
In addition, Miss S has said she had to take seven days off work to meet with E, in an 
attempt to resolve the situation. Which didn’t happen and E became completely 
unresponsive. The investigator has recommended that Creation compensate Miss S for this 
time off work. But the courts are unlikely to make an award for a non-pecuniary (non-
financial) loss.  So, while I appreciate that Miss S may not have wanted to use her holidays 
for meeting with E, she hasn’t suffered a financial loss as her holidays wouldn’t have earned 
her anything had she not taken them. Because of this, I don’t agree with the investigator that 
Creation should compensate Miss S for this.
I’ve asked both Creation and Miss S for any comments they had on this specific point. And 
neither party responded to me request. Given this, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing more to pay;

add up the total amount of money Miss S has paid them for the loan, and deduct the 
amount of money she received:
a) if this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, Creation should 
refund any overpayments, along with 8% simple interest a year calculated from 
the date of the overpayments to the date of the refund †; or
b) if this results in an outstanding capital balance, Creation should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Miss S;

remove any adverse information relating to this loan from Miss S’s credit file;

arrange for the repairs to the windows, and the replacement door to be fitted, as per 
the report from R, within a reasonable amount of time and at no cost to Miss S; and

pay Miss S an additional £500 compensation for the physical discomfort and 
inconvenience she’d been caused.
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss S’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3289942
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms F has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. She isn’t happy about the 
way it communicated with her about her loan agreement and payments. 
What happened
Ms F had a fixed loan agreement with Creation for some living room furniture. The loan was 
to be paid off over a 24-month period by direct debit. Unfortunately, Ms F missed a payment 
in August 2020. 
But for reasons that remain unclear Creation contacted her sister about the missing payment 
as opposed to Ms F. When Ms F contacted Creation about this and raised the issue it still 
went on to write out to Ms F’s sister. So Ms F complained to Creation and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms F and upheld her complaint. This was because he 
was satisfied that Creation’s actions caused Ms F a fair degree of stress and inconvenience 
and so he thought it should pay Ms F £125 in compensation.
As Creation didn’t respond the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. As Creation hasn’t responded to the 
investigator or provided an explanation as to how and why Ms F’s sister was communicated 
with about her finance agreement I don’t propose to go into detail. I can’t be sure what it 
thinks about paying Ms F £125 compensation for its error here, but I think this feels fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
I say this as it isn’t disputed that Creation called Ms F’s sister about the missed payment and 
I’m sure Ms F was embarrassed about this. It compounded its error by writing out to Ms F’s 
sister about her finance agreement after she had told them about the mistake. And it 
continued to communicate with Ms F’s sister when she had agreed to make the missed 
payment which must have been annoying and frustrating for Ms F.
I understand the data protection issues involved here have been advanced separately. So, I 
will simply stick to the poor service and embarrassment Creation caused Ms F. Ms F has 
accepted the investigator’s suggestion that she should be paid £125 compensation and so I 
see no reason to interfere with that. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Ms F £125 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3290812
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to remove records of an 
individual voluntary arrangement from his credit file.
What happened
In June 2011 Mr M entered into an IVA. Creation was one of his creditors. The IVA ended in 
January 2020.
Mr M says that Creation should’ve removed an adverse marker from his credit file when the 
IVA ended but failed to do so. He complained to Creation.
In response, Creation said it should’ve applied a default to Mr M’s credit file at the time he 
entered into the IVA, and that after 6 years, the default would no longer have shown on his 
credit file. Creation acknowledged that this wasn’t what had happened. It said it had 
requested to remove the entry and offered £600 compensation.
Mr M accepted the compensation, but the adverse information remained on his credit file for 
another 6 months before it was removed. Mr M brought his complaint to this service because 
he doesn’t feel that the compensation he’s received is a fair reflection of the impact this has 
had on him. He says the entry on his credit file meant that he was refused mortgage offers 
and lost the opportunity to take advantage of the stamp duty holiday.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He wasn’t persuaded that the adverse data reported 
by Creation was the sole reason for Mr M not being able to get a new mortgage, but said it 
was clear that Creation hadn’t done all it should have done, which had caused distress and 
inconvenience to Mr M. Then investigator recommend that Creation should pay a further 
£150 compensation in addition to the £600 already paid.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it didn’t dispute that it had made an error but said that it thought 
the compensation it had paid already was fair.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation doesn’t dispute that it made an error in the way it reported on Mr M’s credit file. It 
says that it should’ve applied a default to the account in June 2011 when the IVA started, 
and that the default should’ve dropped off the credit file 6 years later. Creation accepts that it 
reported incorrectly. It says it took steps to correct this and paid compensation of £600 which 
it thinks is fair.
Mr M has explained that he’s been trying to get a mortgage since 2019 and that he’s been 
refused several times. He says that as a result, he’s been stuck on an unfavourable rate, 
and that as soon as his credit file was amended, he managed to get a new mortgage 
straightaway.
I’ve thought about what both parties have said. I’ve looked at the records that Mr M has 
provided from his credit file and I have no reason to disbelieve him when he says he was 
declined a mortgage. That said, I haven’t seen any evidence to persuade me that Creations’ 
adverse entry was the main reason for Mr M being declined a mortgage. So, I’m unable to 
say that Creation should compensate for the losses he says he’s suffered as a result of not 
being able to get a mortgage.
Putting things right
I can see that after Creation acknowledged its error and told Mr M that it would correct his 
credit file, it took several more months before things were resolved. I’ve taken account of the 
impact that this further delay had on Mr M. Its clear that Mr M has been caused significant 
distress over an extended period of time. I don’t think the compensation paid by Creation is 
fair in the circumstances. A further sum of £150 should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
further compensation of £150 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3296796
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to remind him of the date by 
which he needed to pay off his buy now pay later loan to avoid interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I am satisfied that Mr L was made aware of the date by which he had to pay off the loan 
before he would have to pay interest. The credit agreement states: 
“The Buy Now Pay Later period for your [X] is due to end on 10/2/2021. 
Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the payments do 
not clear the amount shown in full. If you pay £ by this date you won't be charged any 
interest. If you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the credit amount due, you will 
have to make monthly repayments of £24.49 starting on 10/03/2021. Any balance left to pay 
after this date will incur interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified in your 
credit agreement.”
I believe this made it clear to him at the time of purchase that he had to pay off the balance 
by 20 March 2021 to avoid an interest charge. However, it seems Mr L relied on Creation 
reminding him of the due date closer to the time he was due to pay off the account.
I can see from the statements made available to him online that he was told of the due date. 
I have reviewed the statements issued by Creation in December 202020 and January 2021. 
These state that the buy now pay later period is due to expire on 10 February 2021 and if the 
outstanding sum is not paid interest will be chargeable. It also offered to consider a three-
month extension if his income had been impacted by Coronavirus.
I note Mr L says he didn’t get this information. He has submitted copies of the two 
communications he received from Creation which do not mention the ending of the buy now 
pay later period. However, what he has submitted are the covering emails which contain 
links to the actual statements in which the relevant information is contained. 
I am satisfied that Creation did make Mr L aware of the date by which he had to pay off the 
loan both at the outset and shortly before the due date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3298537
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
 
What happened
Mr A bought solar panels for his home in May 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr A into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the loan 
to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be 
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions 
on future performance. Creation accepted this view and advised they would provide their 
calculations as directed by the adjudicator. But these calculations weren’t provided and so, 
the case was passed to an Ombudsman.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr A was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for his. And I also recognise Creation has accepted the panels were mis-
represented following our adjudicator’s view.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr A fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr A’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr A from the solar panels 
over the term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel 
system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the event the calculation shows that Mr A is paying (or has paid) more than he should have 
Creation need to reimburse Mr A accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the mis-
presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr A 
by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows this is a loss, then while the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr A’s loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr A in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr A’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And Mr A would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I 
would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the 
date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr A have the following 
options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr A 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Mr A 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr A and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr A accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If the Mr A has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr A the difference between what he 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr A has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr A paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr A paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr A receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr A the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr A first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr A’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3300081
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs J complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a refund on her 
account after a retailer made an error.
What happened
Mrs J bought a kitchen appliance from a retailer, C. She paid for it with credit provided by 
Creation. However, C made a mistake with the order and sent the wrong product. C 
acknowledged its error and arranged for a refund. That took longer than expected, however, 
and in the meantime two payments were taken under the credit agreement – one for £34.78 
on 4 August 2020 and one for £12.60 on 17 August 2020. After that, Mrs J cancelled the 
direct debit instruction she had given to her bank. 
Creation did not dispute Mrs J’s entitlement to a refund and arranged for the balance on her 
account to be cleared. According to the records it has provided, however, that was not done 
until May 2021. It appears that this was because C initially cancelled the wrong agreement.  
Mrs J referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought that, whilst the balance due under the credit agreement had, 
correctly, been written off, Mrs J had not received a refund of the two payments made in 
August 2020. She invited Creation to consider making a refund and then issued a 
preliminary view recommending that it did so. She thought too that Creation ought to pay 
Mrs J a further £75 in recognition of the inconvenience to which she had been put and the 
distress she had suffered. The investigator sent copies of her view to both Creation and Mrs 
J. Neither has replied, so the case has been passed to me to review.       
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator set out his understanding of the background in his opinion letter. The facts 
do not appear to be in dispute. 
I agree with the investigator’s assessment that Creation has not done enough to resolve Mrs 
J’s complaint. Since she did not receive the appliance paid for with the credit provided by 
Creation, she ought to be put in the position in which she would have been if she had not 
taken out that credit. So, as well as writing off the balance of the credit, Creation ought to 
refund the payments she made, with interest.    
I agree too that some further compensation is warranted and that £75 is appropriate in the 
circumstances. In addition, Creation should remove any adverse credit information relating 
to Mr J and which may have been recorded as a result of these events. 
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mrs J’s complaint in full, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should:

refund the two payments made by Mrs J on 4 and 8 August 2020, together with interest 
at 8% a year simple from the date of payment until the date of the refund;

pay Mrs J a further £75; and 

arrange for the removal of any adverse credit information which may have been 
registered in respect of the purchase from C.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3305054
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs Q complains about the quality of a bed she bought through a finance agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, I’m not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint but I don’t have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs Q made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
There’s clearly been a breach of contract here as the inspector sent by the supplier to look at 
the mattress confirmed it was faulty.
The relevant legislation gave Mrs Q a short term right to reject the goods within 30 days if 
there was anything wrong with them and as Mrs Q reported the fault in the first week she 
had that right. I’ve seen the product description on the fixed sum loan was a “super king bed” 
so I think when rejecting the goods Mrs Q could reasonably be expecting to reject the bed 
and the mattress, especially as one was not much use without the other and they were 
bought as a set.
If Mrs Q accepted a replacement instead of rejection the law may suggest she had waived 
her short term right of rejection. But I’m not persuaded there is sufficient evidence Mrs Q did 
accept a replacement. She says she didn’t, and I think her actions in the first few weeks of 
ownership are consistent with wanting to reject the goods and understanding that rejection 
couldn’t be achieved without allowing an inspection.
I’m also not persuaded that the fact the mattress was unwrapped by Mrs Q should impact on 
her right to reject the goods. Indeed, I can see that the supplier’s terms say they don’t.
So, I think Mrs Q should be allowed to reject the goods as they’ve not been of satisfactory 
quality.
Putting things right
Creation will need to cancel the agreement and they have a right to collect the goods should 
they wish. They have indicated that they are happy for Mrs Q to keep the faulty mattress or 
dispose of it and they’ve explained they’d be happy to reimburse the disposal cost if Mrs Q 
chooses to do so. They’ve not commented on whether they would want to collect the bed. 
Should they wish to do so they’ll need to make arrangements with Mrs Q but if she has to 
dispose of the bed as well Creation should also refund reasonable costs to do that.
It's only fair that Mrs Q pays for the use she’s had from the goods. I’d agree with the 
investigator’s suggestion that Creation should therefore refund all finance instalments paid. 
But that they should be allowed to retain 50% of the instalments Mrs Q has paid in respect of 
that use from the date of purchase to the 1 March 2022, a date by which I think it’s fair to 
suggest settlement could be reached and after which it wouldn’t be fair for Mrs Q to still be 
paying for the goods.
Creation will need to add interest to any refunds.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

End the finance agreement with nothing left to pay and collect the goods, should they 
wish, in line with my comments above. Refund any reasonable disposal costs Mrs Q 
can evidence if the goods are not to be collected.

Refund all finance instalments paid and add 8% simple interest per year to that 
refund. Creation can retain 50% of payments made from the date of purchase until 1 
March 2022 in respect of the use Mrs Q has had from the goods.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3307472
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the quality of a sofa he bought using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S bought a leather sofa from a supplier I’ll call H. He entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for it. The sofa was delivered at the end of 
September 2019. Shortly after this, Mr S noticed a large area of leather peeling from the 
sofa. He told H about this. It arranged for the sofa to be inspected by a company I’ll call C.
 
C inspected the sofa and sent a report to H. The report identified a defective finish on the 
leather and stated the manufacturer was liable for this. A few days later C told Mr S new 
parts were required to fix the issue, and these could take up to 12 weeks to arrive. This was 
mid-January 2020.
 
But before the sofa could be fixed, the UK went into covid-19 lockdown. Not long after this, H 
went into administration. Due to personal circumstances, Mr S wasn’t able to pursue the 
matter further until the following year. In May 2021 he contacted Creation about the faulty 
sofa. It dealt with this as a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
 
Creation said that as the sofa was now more than six months old, Mr S needed to provide a 
report to show there was a manufacturing fault. He replied immediately enclosing a copy of 
C’s letter showing parts were ordered in January 2020. Creation simply repeated its stance 
that it needed an inspection confirming the problem.
 
Mr S wasn’t happy with this. He brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked 
into this issue. In brief, she thought that, as the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality, Creation 
should: cancel Mr S’ agreement; collect the sofa; clear the agreement from Mr S’ credit file; 
and, give him a refund of all the payments he’d made including the deposit he’d paid.
 
Mr S accepted our investigator’s view. Creation didn’t. Its position was that it had only 
recently seen a copy of the inspection report carried out by C and this showed that a repair 
to the sofa was the correct option. Our investigator didn’t agree but Creation maintained this 
stance. So, this case was passed to me to review.
 
To try and resolve things informally, our investigator shared my initial thoughts with Creation. 
Briefly, I explained that I thought that, given the time that had passed, it was no longer 
reasonable for a repair to be carried out. Taking this into account, I explained I was minded 
to uphold this complaint. I set out what Creation needed to do to put things right which was 
broadly similar to the redress our investigator set out in her view. 
I asked Creation if it would now consider settling this complaint in the way I’d suggested. It 
didn’t agree. Briefly, Creation said the delay had been caused by the consumer not providing 
an up to date report when asked. As no agreement has been reached, I’ve moved to issue a 
formal decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. I’ll explain why. But first, I’m aware 
that I’ve summarised this complaint very briefly, in far less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what I 
think the key issue is here: Should Creation give Mr S a full refund?
 
If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, I haven’t ignored it. I’ve not commented on every 
individual detail or argument, only those that I’m satisfied are central to me reaching what I 
think is a fair outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the informal nature of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service as a free alternative to the courts.
 
When reaching my decision, I’m required take into account relevant law. Here, this includes 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75), and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 
2015). S75 sets out that, in certain circumstances, as the provider of the finance used to pay 
for the sofa, Mr S has a like claim against Creation for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, H. I’m satisfied those circumstances apply here.
 
The CRA 2015 implied a term into Mr S’s contract with H that, among other things, the sofa 
would be of satisfactory quality. Mr S has given us a copy of a letter from C from January 
2020 which clearly shows there was a problem with the sofa and that replacement parts 
were needed. This is dated less than four months from when the sofa was supplied. So, I’m 
satisfied this demonstrates it wasn’t of satisfactory quality. I’ve also seen the report from C 
from the same time which shows the problem was due to a manufacturing fault.
 
In these circumstances, as more than 30 days had passed since delivery, the CRA 2015 
gives Mr S the right to ask for the goods to be repaired or replaced. I can see the repair 
wasn’t able to be carried out at the time due to covid-19 and then H going into 
administration. But Mr S also wasn’t in a position to pursue this until May 2021. When he did, 
I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Creation to have arranged the repair at this 
point. But it didn’t.
 
Instead, when Mr S asked it to arrange the repair, Creation told him that, as the sofa was 
more than six months old, the burden of proof was on him to demonstrate the goods weren’t 
of satisfactory quality. I don’t agree. Where goods don’t conform to contract - in this case 
because they weren’t of satisfactory quality – any time within six months of delivery, it must 
be taken that they didn’t conform on that said delivery date.
 
I can see Mr S replied within hours of Creation’s request for him to get a report. He supplied 
a copy of the letter from C. As above, I’m satisfied this clearly showed there was a problem 
with the sofa that needed fixing and that this problem had presented itself within six months 
of the sofa’s delivery. As I’ve said, this means it must be taken that the sofa didn’t conform to 
contract when it was delivered. So, I’m satisfied the onus was on Creation to show the sofa 
conformed to contract, not on Mr S to show it didn’t 
Given this, if Creation wanted any more details around the exact nature of the repair and the 
parts that were needed, I’m satisfied it would have been fair and reasonable for it to clarify 
this directly with C, especially as H had gone into administration. If Creation had got in touch 
with C, as we did, the situation could have been clarified fairly quickly. 
But it kept asking Mr S to get a report which, as above, I’m satisfied Mr S didn’t need to 
provide. Instead, I’m satisfied Creation should have done more at this point to arrange a 
repair. But it didn’t. 
As above, the CRA 2015 gives Mr S the right here to ask for his sofa to be repaired or 
replaced. In general terms, this must be done within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience to the consumer. Further, Mr S has a final right to reject the sofa if 
he’s asked for a repair and this hasn’t been carried out within a reasonable time and without 
significant inconvenience.
 
I’ve borne in mind that Mr S didn’t get in touch with Creation till May 2021, but even when he 
did, it hasn’t arranged a repair within a reasonable time. It follows, I don’t think Creation has 
handled Mr S’s S75 claim in a fair and reasonable way. So, I think he should now be allowed 
to exercise his final right to reject the sofa and get a full refund.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Creation should:

Arrange collection of the sofa at no cost to Mr S* 

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay

Clear the agreement from Mr S’s credit file

Refund Mr S’s deposit of £268.15 together with 8% annual simple interest from the 
date of that payment to the date of settlement

Refund all the loan repayments Mr S has made together with 8% annual simple 
interest calculated from the date of each payment to the date of settlement
If Creation thinks it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
simple interest outlined above, it should tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
* I’m aware that Creation isn’t always able to facilitate a sofa’s collection. Previously, it has 
suggested that a consumer arranges for their local council to collect the sofa and Creation 
will cover the cost of this. I can see that Mr S’s local council charges around £37.50 for the 
collection of this type of item. If Creation isn’t able to arrange the collection of the sofa it 
should pay Mr S £37.50 so he can arrange this instead.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take the action I’ve set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3309337
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs O complains about the interest that she’s been charged by Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited under a credit agreement.
What happened
Mrs O entered into a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in December 2020 
to pay £549 for a television. The agreement was on “buy now – pay later” terms and she 
could pay £549 by the special offer date in June 2021 without any interest being charged. 
Mrs O has described the steps that she took to activate her plan, including visiting the 
retailer, but she says that the plan was showing a zero balance in June 2021. She says that 
she then spoke with Creation Consumer Finance and was told that the plan was linked to a 
previous purchase so it corrected the error but, by then, the special offer date had passed 
and interest was applied to her account. 
Mrs O complained to Creation Consumer Finance but it said that it didn’t receive the 
payment by the required date so interest had become applicable. Mrs O wasn’t satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service and says that it should refund £67.85 of interest to 
her.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Creation 
Consumer Finance had offered no explanation of what had happened and he agreed with 
Mrs O so recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should refund £67.85 of the 
interest charge incurred to Mrs O. Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t responded to that 
recommendation.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mrs O has described the steps that she took to activate her account, including visiting 
the retailer, and has provided evidence to show the account details that she was 
given and the verification codes that were sent to her;

she says that she had issues activating her account, the plan was then showing a 
zero balance in June 2021 and that she spoke with Creation Consumer Finance and 
was told that the plan was linked to a previous purchase so it corrected the error – 
but by then the special offer date had passed so interest had been applied to her 
account;

Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t provided any information to this service about 
Mrs O’s complaint and, other than an automated acknowledgement, hasn’t 
responded to our investigator’s recommendations;

other than its final response letter, which Mrs O has provided, it hasn’t provided any 
evidence to show that there wasn’t an error on Mrs O’s account, that it’s acted 
correctly and that interest has been correctly applied to her account; and

I’ve not been provided with enough evidence to show that Mrs O’s description of 
events is incorrect and I see no reason in these circumstances to disagree with our 
investigator’s recommendation.
Putting things right
Mrs O says that she has paid £67.85 of interest to Creation Consumer Finance and has 
asked for that interest to be refunded to her. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances for Creation Consumer Finance to refund £67.85 to Mrs O.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs O’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to refund £67.85 to Mrs O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3312756
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Financial Services Limited rejected his claim under s 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty furniture.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
After Mr L brought his complaint to this service Creation agreed to cover the cost of the 
necessary repairs. However, Mr L explained that the attempt at repair wasn’t satisfactory as 
the technician arrived with only enough material to repair one sofa rather than two. There 
followed a long delay while the repairing company waited for authorisation from Creation to 
complete the work. It was after this time that Creation made its offer to refund the cost of the 
furniture less a sum for usage.
Mr L disputed Creation’s calculations. This was due to the fact that the original furniture had 
been faulty and it had been replaced by the merchant, but the second set of sofas was also 
faulty. It was the second set of sofas which had been the cause of Mr L’s complaint. Mr L 
provided documentary evidence which set out what had happened.
The new furniture was more expensive and cost £3,542 compared with the original sum of 
£3,100. Creation offered Mr L £2,118.33 which was based on the original cost. It also offered 
£100 compensation. Our investigator recalculated the sum due using the revised cost and 
taking into account the use Mr L had made of the furniture. He calculated the sum should be 
£2,682.18. I have reviewed his calculations and I consider them to be fair.
Creation has not responded and Mr L agreed with the revised calculations, but he suggested 
that the level of compensation should be increased to reflect the delays and lack of 
communication from Creation.
I agree that the compensation should be more and I consider £200 to be fair. Given the 
delays Mr L has encountered throughout I do not consider it necessary to issue a provisional 
decision for this minor change to the level of compensation.
Putting things right
Creation should compensate Mr L as set out below.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Creation Financial Services Limited to pay Mr L £ £2,682.18 
plus £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr L 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3313059
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr Y complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled a complaint about a 
faulty sofa for which it provided the finance.
What happened
In or around August 2020 Mr Y bought a sofa from a retailer, D. He paid for it with a three-
year loan from Creation, set up under arrangements between Creation and D.
The sofa had some damage when it was delivered. Mr Y was told that someone would come 
out from D to inspect it. When D’s representative did attend, they carried out a repair to the 
sofa – Mr Y says without his consent. 
Mr Y complained to D and said that he should have had the option of rejecting the sofa and 
having either a refund or a replacement. D did not agree but offered Mr Y compensation of 
£150. Mr Y did not think this was fair and complained to Creation.
Creation said that there was little it could do. A repair had been done and Mr Y had been 
offered additional compensation which was fair in the circumstances. Mr Y referred the case 
to this service. Our investigator was broadly in agreement with Creation. She noted that the 
repair appeared to have been successful and did not recommend that Mr Y’s complaint 
about Creation be upheld. Mr Y said that he wanted to have a new sofa, not a repaired one, 
and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr Y paid for the sofa with credit provided under arrangements between D and 
Creation, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if Mr Y has a claim 
for breach of contract against D, he has a like claim against Creation. 
D’s contract with Mr Y was to be read as including a provision that the sofa would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect, and includes 
matters such as appearance and finish, and freedom from minor defects. It does not appear 
to be in dispute that the sofa was not free of minor defects; that, and its appearance and 
finish, meant that it was not of satisfactory quality at delivery.  
I am satisfied however that the sofa was successfully repaired. It was put into the condition it 
should have been in when it was delivered.
A repair is one of a number of possible remedies available where goods are not of 
satisfactory quality. Others include replacement, rejection, a refund, or reduction of the price. 
Mr Y says he was not given any option, as a repair was done without his agreement. It does 
appear to me however that a repair was appropriate in this case, since the sofa was put into 
a satisfactory condition quickly and easily and at no cost to Mr Y. 
Mr Y did not contact Creation until after the sofa had been repaired. So, even if I thought Mr 
Y should have been given a choice of remedies, the problem with the sofa had been 
resolved by the time Creation became involved. I agree with the investigator that it would be 
disproportionate to conclude that Mr Y should also be entitled to reject the sofa. I note too 
that D offered Mr Y a further £150 by way of compensation.
In the circumstances, I think that Creation was entitled to take the view that D had done 
enough to resolve the case and that it, Creation, did not need to do any more. That was, in 
my view, a fair response to Mr Y’s complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to do any more to resolve Mr Y’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3313326
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that furniture he bought with the help of finance from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory quality. He says that Creation is equally liable with the 
retailer.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr H bought a suite of furniture from a retailer, R. The suite comprised a 2- 
seater sofa, a chair, and a footstool. R’s invoice priced the sofa at £2,298 and the chair at 
£1,598; the footstool was not separately priced. After various discounts and a deposit of 
£229 had been deducted, there was a balance of £2,055.50. Mr H paid the bulk of this with a 
loan from Creation, arranged by R. Under the loan terms, he was to make 46 monthly 
payments of just over £40.
In or about July 2020, Mr H complained that the furniture had developed faults. By this point, 
R was in administration. Because of that, it said that it could not deal with Mr H’s claim. He 
therefore referred the matter to Creation and in April 2021 an inspection of the furniture was 
arranged. That inspection concluded that: (i) buttons were coming loose on the footstool and 
sofa; (ii) a foot on the chair was cracked; and (iii) the chair frame was damaged because of a 
manufacturing fault.
Creation agreed to repairs, but Mr H said that, because it had taken so long to address the 
complaint and arrange the inspection, he wanted to reject the furniture. He referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator agreed that the return of the sofa was a reasonable way to resolve Mr H’s 
complaint. She recommended that Creation arrange to collect the furniture, end the credit 
agreement and refund the deposit and 15% of any monthly payments made – reflecting the 
fact that, whilst the items were not perfect, Mr H had been able to use them. She also 
recommended a further payment of £100 to reflect the inconvenience to which Mr H had 
been put.
Creation did not respond to the investigator’s recommendations, so the case was passed to 
me for further consideration.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained that the effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 was that Creation was liable in the same way as R for any breach of the sale 
contract. And it was not in dispute that the furniture was not of satisfactory quality, as 
required by the Consumer Rights Act 2015. It was not sufficiently durable. 
The main issue I had to consider was that of the appropriate remedy. The investigator 
thought that Mr H ought to be able to return the furniture to Creation. I noted however that 
the inspection report indicated that the furniture could be repaired. I thought that would be a 
fair remedy. I noted too that it was not entirely clear that returning the furniture would be a 
practical solution, given that Creation is the finance company, not the retailer. 
I thought however that a lump sum payment would better compensate Mr H for the fact he 
had had to use imperfect furniture than a refund of part of the monthly payments he had 
made. I suggested a figure of £300. 
Creation agreed to reimburse the cost of repairs, which could be arranged by the company 
which carried out the inspection. It thought however that the suggested further payment of 
£300 was too high and suggested a figure of £300 instead. 
Mr H said that he had lost faith in the furniture and still wanted to be able to reject it, as the 
investigator had recommended. He said that the problems with the furniture had come to 
light rather sooner than I had suggested in my provisional decision – and certainly within sic 
months of delivery.  
Because no agreement could be reached, I considered the complaint again.     
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I have not changed my overall view from that set out in my 
provisional decision. 
The main issue is whether Creation should fund repairs to the furniture or accept its return. I 
explained in my provisional decision that the inspection report indicated it could be repaired. 
A repair should put Mr H in the position in which he would have been if the contract had 
been performed – that is, he will have functioning furniture which is two-and-a-half years old 
and which he is paying for through the Creation loan. I think that a repair, if successful, 
would be a fair and reasonable resolution. 
The second issue is whether Mr H should receive any additional compensation in recognition 
of the fact that his use of the furniture has been impaired for some time, and, if so, how 
much. Creation offered £150 towards the loan balance. I remain of the view, however, that a 
higher payment of £300 is merited; I think too that it should be paid direct to Mr H, rather 
than being credited to the loan account. If Mr H wants to use some or all of it to reduce the 
loan balance, he can do so, but he should have the option not to.         
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr H’s complaint in full, Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should fund the cost of carrying out the repairs recommended by the 
inspection report (by reimbursing Mr H) and pay Mr H a further £300 in recognition of the 
distress he has suffered by not having a suite which was of satisfactory quality. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3313979
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Background
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in or around October 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr H into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr H fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
him by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would have paid more each month than he should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as he would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, 
I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement.
Mr H settled the loan on 16 November 2018, so Creation must pay him the difference 
between what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure 
above, with interest at 8% a year.
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, then he should promptly supply evidence of the 
refinance to Creation, and then (if Creation has not already paid him the compensation set 
out above) Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3316751
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr Q complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has incorrectly recorded late payment 
markers on his credit file.
What happened
Mr Q says he took out a Creation loan in 2009. He says in around 2012 he entered an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) which included his Creation debt. Mr Q says he 
completed the IVA in 2018 but between 2015 and 2018 Creation recorded late payment 
markers on his credit file. He says that has affected his ability to obtain a mortgage and says 
he did make required agreed payments throughout the IVA. Mr Q would like the adverse 
information removed from his credit file.
Creation has provided limited information about this complaint but accepts it ought to have 
registered a default on Mr Q’s credit file and not recorded late payment markers.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Creation should remove the late payment markers and pay Mr Q £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Mr Q accepts that view.
Creation says it should be able to amend Mr Q’s credit file.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint despite the very 
limited information Creation has provided us with.
I’m satisfied that having looked at the documents Mr Q has provided us with that he was in 
an IVA and his Creation debt was included in that agreement. I can see that Creation 
accepts that it ought to have registered a default on Mr Q’s credit file in 2012 and should not 
have reported the late payment markers. I make clear that I don’t know if a default was 
registered and would have expected Creation to have known if it did. In those circumstances 
I’m satisfied that the late payment markers should be removed from Mr Q’s credit file which I 
can see Creation also accepts should take place.
I have no doubt Mr Q was caused distress and inconvenience in dealing with this issue 
which has gone on for a significant period of time. I also accept that the markers will have 
had an affect on Mr Q’s ability to obtain credit, but it is difficult to be sure about the level of 
that impact. I agree with the investigator’s recommendation of £200 compensation which I 
think is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the length of time this has been going on for 
and the impact on Mr Q.
Putting things right
Creation should pay Mr Q £200 compensation and remove the late payment markers from 
his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
pay Mr Q £200 compensation and remove the late payment markers from his credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3318933
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t refunded the cost of a damaged 
sofa.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the required debtor-creditor- supplier link is in place. I am also satisfied that 
there has been a breach of contract in that the sofa was damaged when being delivered to 
Mr W. The merchant has ceased to trade and Creation has accepted responsibility. 
The sofa was ordered in January 2020 and delivered in June. Mr W complained to Creation 
in August 2020. Under consumer law the merchant is entitled to one opportunity to make a 
repair of any damaged goods. The independent inspection reports that the sofa can be 
repaired and would take less than two hours. Creation has agreed to pay for those repairs. I 
consider that to be a fair and reasonable response.
Mr W has said he wants a refund. However, as the goods can be repaired and returned to 
an acceptable state I do not see that there is any basis for a price reduction. He will have a 
sofa which has been fixed and so there is no requirement on Creation to pay him additional 
money.
Putting things right
The sofa should be repaired.
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has already made an offer to pay for the repair to the sofa 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay for the sofa to be 
repaired.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3320891
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a sofa he purchased through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr G has been represented by his partner during the course of this complaint but for ease, 
and as Mr G is named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Creation arranged for an inspection of the two-seater sofa in July 2020. The inspector 
confirmed there was a manufacturing problem as feet hadn’t been fitted to one side. The 
inspector concluded his report by explaining that the supplier would need to source and 
retrofit the feet.
Creation therefore upheld Mr G’s complaint and left it to Mr G to arrange that repair with the 
supplier.
The relevant legislation says that goods should be of satisfactory quality when supplied and I 
don’t think that can be said to have been the case here. The inspector has confirmed there 
was a manufacturing fault.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the fault and here I can see that’s what Creation have agreed to do. 
I don’t think it was unreasonable for them to ask Mr G to make arrangements with the 
supplier or to pay any costs if they became due. Mr G would know when he was available to 
allow the repairer access and I think it made sense for him to therefore call the supplier. It 
doesn’t seem likely any costs would be incurred but if they were I can see that Creation were 
prepared to refund them and I think they therefore met their obligations.
As Creation have done what I’d expect them to do, and what the law requires of them, I don’t 
think they’ve been unreasonable here and I’m not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3321276
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (CCF) treated her unfairly when it
added interest to a fixed sum loan and provided poor service after she complained, causing
additional distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs G purchased furniture from a retailer that I’ll refer to as B. She paid a
deposit of £500 in the shop leaving a balance to pay of nearly £850 which she funded with
credit. Mrs G thought B was the lender and she didn’t have to pay the balance for six months
– under a buy now pay later (BNPL) option. She phoned B in March 2020 when she hadn’t
heard anything - nearly six months after delivery. There was no answer so she sent B an
email shortly after, asking when payment was due exactly and how she should pay. Mrs G
heard nothing back she was aware that some businesses were struggling to deal with 
customers due to the impact of the pandemic (this was near the start of the first lockdown), 
she decided to wait for B to respond.
In November 2020 CCF sent Mrs G a financial statement that said she owed over £1,600
(the £850 balance plus interest) under a fixed sum loan that CCF had provided. Mrs G says
she’d never heard of CCF before - no third party was mentioned when she bought the goods
and agreed to defer the balance payment. She was upset to find that interest had been
added to the account. She says she had the funds to pay and wanted to do so within the 
BNPL period. And the only reason she didn’t, was B didn’t tell her who or how to pay when 
she took out the finance - or when she asked about this a few months later. 
After she received the statement Mrs G phoned CCF to try and pay the balance without 
interest. A call handler accepted payment of about £850, but told Mrs G that she’d need to 
apply online if she wanted to extend the date when interest was added. Mrs G made the 
online application for an extension but her request was declined and CCF says she’s liable 
to pay interest of over £700. Mrs G feels this is unfair. She’s retired and says she’d never 
taken out this sort of finance before. She’s unhappy that she wasn’t given the information 
she needed to make the payment in time without incurring interest. And she considers CCF 
made matters worse when she asked for help. Mrs G wants CCF to remove interest and 
acknowledge that she’s paid the debt and the finance is settled in full.
CCF looked into what happened but it didn’t uphold the complaint. In its final response letter
(FRL) CCF said (in summary):-

Mrs G took out a fixed sum loan with CCF when she bought the goods, the loan
agreement has CCF’s name on it and Mrs G should reasonably have been aware of
the name of the lender;

under the loan terms Mrs G had the opportunity to pay for the goods free from
interest if she paid the full cash price on or before the special offer date (SOD) - 31st 
October 2020;

a reminder letter was sent to Mrs G in September 2020 but payment wasn’t made by
the SOD so interest was added properly at that point and CCF started to collect
monthly payments by direct debit (over 36 months) as agreed under the loan terms;

Mrs G asked to extend the SOD in December 2020 but this was impossible as the
due date had already passed.
Mrs G remained unhappy and she referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the evidence. He wasn’t persuaded, on balance, that Mrs G was 
provided with all of the necessary information at the outset. He asked CCF to supply a copy 
of the reminder letter it said was sent in September 2020 (as referred to in the FRL) but CCF 
said reminders were actually sent in May and October 2020 and the reference to September 
was a mistake. 
CCF was unable to provide copies of the actual letters that were sent to Mrs G but it sent us 
a standard template and a screenshot that indicated some correspondence was issued to 
her in May and October 2020. The investigator didn’t think this was sufficient to prove that 
reminder letters were actually sent – given the confusion over the number of letters and the 
issue dates. He was satisfied that Mrs G has consistently said she never received anything 
from or about CCF - before the account statement. He thought the fact she got in touch with 
CCF very shortly after she received that - and repaid the balance - suggests she had the 
money available and she wanted to pay. He considered this was also supported by her 
earlier efforts to contact B in March and April 2020.
The investigator considered it was more likely than not Mrs G would have repaid the balance
before the SOD if she’d been given all the necessary information at the outset or been sent
reminders. And he thought CCF could have done more to assist when she asked for help. 
He didn’t think it was fair of CCF to suggest that Mrs G should apply online for a payment 
deferral - which was inappropriate for her circumstances - and then fail to tell her about the 
outcome of that application when it said that it would. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. And, in light of the fact Mrs G has 
paid the full purchase price already, he recommended CCF should end the loan agreement, 
mark it as settled and pay Mrs G £100 for associated distress and inconvenience – to put 
things right.
CCF didn’t agree. It said (in summary):-

the loan agreement bears Mrs G’s electronic signature and she was required to read
and accept the terms and conditions before she signed;

the loan agreement states clearly that the finance is provided by CCF and who to
pay;

a copy of the credit agreement is always provided at the point of sale;

CCF can’t provide an exact copy of the letters Mrs G was sent as reminder letters are
automated - but the information supplied shows that such letters were generated on
the dates stated - and templates like those supplied have been accepted as evidence
by our service in the past;

SOD extensions are possible for consumers who were impacted by Covid-19 and
wish to pay the cash price to avoid interest but need more time to do so - Mrs G had
already paid the balance of the cash price on 7th December 2020 so it was unlikely
that such an extension would be granted.
CCF acknowledged that Mrs G should have been kept informed about the decision not to
provide an extension and it offered to pay her £50 compensation for any distress and
inconvenience caused by that.
Our investigator wasn’t persuaded to change his recommendations. He thinks call
recordings that CCF provided make it clear that Mrs G didn’t want to defer payment due to
financial problems. She wanted an extension so she could pay the balance free from
interest. And she would probably have done this in time - if she’d received all the information
that she should have been given earlier. CCF asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
Having considered the available evidence I was minded to uphold this complaint but my 
reasons were somewhat different to the investigator’s. I issued a provisional decision on 25 
January 2022 to allow the parties to consider my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I’ve set out below what I 
decided provisionally – and why – and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I don’t think there’s any dispute that Mrs G agreed to take out some credit when she
purchased the goods from B. She paid a deposit of £500 in the shop when she placed the
order which left over £800 to pay. The parties disagree however about what happened
exactly and what information Mrs G received about the credit agreement at the relevant time.
Mrs G says B told her that she could defer paying the balance for six months, CCF wasn’t
mentioned at the time and she has no memory of accepting a loan from CCF – electronically
or otherwise. She thought this agreement was with B. She expected to hear from B about
the balance payment after the goods were delivered. And she received no paperwork about
the loan on the day of the purchase - or after.
CCF, on the other hand, says the loan agreement bears Mrs G’s electronic signature. And
this means she was taken through the loan documentation by B - via various electronic
screens - before signing, to ensure that she understood and accepted the relevant terms and
conditions. Then B would have provided a paper copy of the loan agreement before she left
the store. And Mrs G should not reasonably have been misled about who the lender was or
what she’d agreed to.
It’s impossible for me to be certain what happened at the point of sale itself, from the
information I’ve got. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider
circumstances.
I’m satisfied that CCF may be held liable (under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974) if B told Mrs G something that wasn’t true that she relied upon during pre-sale
negotiations - or if Mrs G wasn’t given all the information that she should have received
about the loan before she took it out.
I appreciate CCF has told us about what usually happens during the course of this sort of
Sale. But, Mrs G says the usual process wasn’t followed here. In this situation, I’d expect the
lender to be able to provide some record of the sale process – such as an electronic footprint
showing how long it took Mrs G to read through the pre-contract credit information, for
example. Or some form of confirmation from B (or the borrower) that a paper copy of the
loan agreement was provided. We asked CCF to supply details of the sale process and sight 
of any relevant electronic records that illustrate the various stages of this loan application but 
CCF hasn’t done so. 
I have read through the loan documents and I can see these contain Mrs G’s personal
information and her banking details. So, I think she must have provided this information to B
at the relevant time. But, Mrs G doesn’t dispute that she agreed to take out some finance
here – so it’s perhaps not unexpected that B would have this information. And I’m not
persuaded that the presence of this information alone means that Mrs G must have been
taken through the loan forms properly in the way that CCF suggests.
I think Mrs G has been fairly consistent in her version of events. She told us, for example
that she didn’t know that the credit provider was CCF until near the end of 2020. I’m satisfied
she emailed B in April that year to ask when the loan payment was due and how she should
pay – which seems consistent with her being unaware that CCF was the lender.
I think the call recordings that CCF supplied (from December 2020) also suggest that it was
a shock to Mrs G to find out CCF had provided the loan - when she received the statement.
And, when we asked Mrs G about the paperwork she received in the store on the day of the
purchase, she was able to supply the original order form, the deposit receipt and the product
booklet itself. I think the fact she was able to do this, some 12 months after the transaction,
suggests she’s fairly careful with her paperwork. And she’s unlikely to have mislaid or
forgotten if she was given a copy of the loan agreement at the same time.
On the information I have at the moment, I have no reason to doubt what Mrs G says
happened. I’ve seen nothing to show that a paper copy of the loan agreement was provided
to Mrs G - either in store or later. And CCF hasn’t supplied the information I’d normally
expect to see about the electronic loan application process. I appreciate B should have
taken Mrs G through the loan forms online and given her a copy of the executed loan
agreement – in line with CCF’s usual process. But I don’t have a statement from B about
what happened. And I can’t rule out the possibility that the salesperson filled out the online
forms - asking Mrs G for her details as they went along.
Ultimately, I’m satisfied that CCF was under an obligation here to ensure that Mrs G was
reasonably informed about the loan terms before she borrowed this money and provide a
copy of the loan agreement. I think Mrs G has been fairly consistent in her recollection of
events. And I don’t think CCF has done enough to show that it complied with its obligations.
I appreciate CCF says Mrs G would have been reminded, in any event, about when the
BNPL period was due to end - because it sent her letters before the SOD. CCF originally
said one reminder was sent in September 2020 (in the FRL) but it told us subsequently that
was wrong and two reminders were sent in May and October the same year. Like the
investigator, I think this confusion casts some doubt as to when - and if - reminders were
issued.
I’m satisfied that Mrs G has consistently denied receiving any reminders and, again, I think
her actions support this. I’m satisfied she made efforts to try and sort out the balance 
payment with B earlier in the year. And she was able to pay the balance not long after she 
was contacted by CCF – just after the SOD - which suggests she had the money to pay what 
she owed at the time. 
It’s difficult to see why Mrs G would ignore reminders that CCF says were sent in May (just 
after she got in touch with B asking how and when to pay) and October (when she was able 
to pay the balance not long after - as soon as she received the November statement). On 
balance, I think it’s unlikely Mrs G received any reminders – and, if she had, she would 
probably have paid the balance in time to avoid interest.
In light of the above, I’m minded to agree with the investigator that a fair and reasonable 
outcome - in these particular and unusual circumstances - is for Mrs G to be allowed to pay 
for the goods without added interest. As she’s already paid the purchase price in full, I think 
CCF should cancel the finance with nothing further owing and remove any adverse 
information from Mrs G’s credit file. If CCF has taken any additional direct debit payments (in 
excess of the balance due) these should also be refunded with interest.
 
Mrs G has told us how upset and stressed she was by what happened. I understand she 
found CCF difficult to contact and feels she was passed around various departments without 
any resolution to her problems. For the reasons I’ve set out, I’m not persuaded that CCF did 
all that it should have here. I think CCF also accepts it should have handled things better – it 
has offered to pay £50 compensation. Taking everything into account, I’m minded to agree 
with the investigator that it is fair and reasonable for CCF to pay Mrs G £100 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments or information by 15 February 2022 and I’d review all the evidence available after 
that and make my final decision. 
The date set above has now passed and CCF hasn’t responded or raised any objection to 
my provisional findings. Mrs G accepts my provisional conclusions. And I see no reasonable 
grounds to depart from my provisional decision in the circumstances. 
For the reasons I’ve given, I remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable, in these 
particular circumstances, for Mrs G to be allowed to pay for the goods without added interest 
and CCF should take the steps below to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to:-
1. end the finance agreement and mark the loan as settled;
2. refund any additional direct debit payments taken after the balance was repaid 
(with interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of settlement);
3. remove any adverse information from Mrs G’s credit file; and
4. pay Mrs G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If CCF considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs G how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3322602
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in May 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. And he noted Creation had 
accepted the benefits of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer. And he 
recognised they had made an offer in line with what we’d recommend, for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. So, he upheld the complaint on this 
basis and explained the restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance 
of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
But Mr S rejected this outcome. And he explained he refinanced the loan provided by 
Creation in June 2018. So, he wanted the additional interest he incurred due to this to be 
taken into account by Creation. Our adjudicator agreed with this and recommended Creation 
consider this when re-calculating their offer to Mr S. But Creation didn’t respond, so the 
complaint has been passed to an Ombudsman.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. 
So, I don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for his.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. And this calculation should 
also factor in the additional interest Mr S had incurred due to the re-financing of the loan.
If the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should have 
Creation need to reimburse Mr S accordingly.  Should the calculation show that the mis-
presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with Mr S 
by way of explanation.  
I’ve been told that Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, and we have forwarded evidence 
of the refinance to Creation, so Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S’ complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd and I direct them to take the actions I’ve set out in the decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3331557
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has not properly addressed her claim 
under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty wardrobe which was 
removed by the merchant.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied the debtor-creditor-suppler link is in place and I have to consider if there was 
breach of contract and if there is, what redress is appropriate. 
It is agreed that the fitted wardrobe wasn’t as ordered and the merchant removed it. Ms P 
has paid for goods which she does not have due to a failure by the merchant and so she is 
entitled to have that remedied. I do not consider it fair for her to pay for something which was 
removed by the merchant due to it not being as ordered. 
I gather it has offered Ms P half the cost, but she has explained the one which was removed 
was more expensive than the other. The only information I have seen as to the cost is an 
invoice which shows a sum of £1,700 which is the figure offered to Ms P by the retailer. She 
has supplied a copy of the loan agreement which shows the cost of both wardrobes was 
£3,351. 
Regrettably Creation have not fully engaged with this complaint and so I don’t have the 
details I would normally expect to see. As such it seems only fair that Ms P receives a refund 
for the full cost of the faulty wardrobe which I presume to be in excess of £1,700..
I also agree with our investigator that she has incurred consequential losses in that the 
paintwork was damaged by the fitters removing the wardrobe. Ms P has evidenced this with 
photos. I consider Creation should meet the cost of repainting the room.
Ms P has also demonstrated that she had carpet fitted which stopped at the point of where 
the wardrobe stood. Now that it has been removed she is left with an unsightly gap. Our 
investigator agreed this needed to be remedied and said it might need a section being added 
or the whole carpet should be replaced. I take the view that given the delay caused by 
Creation it is unlikely that a repair could be effected that would properly match the original 
and so the carpet would need to be replaced. 
This issue has been going on for almost two years and I consider Ms P is due compensation 
for the trouble and upset she has endured of £200.
Putting things right
Ms P should be compensated to the faulty wardrobe.
My final decision
Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

Pay to Ms P the cost of the removed wardrobe,

Pay her annual interest at 8% simple on this sum from the date(s) paid until the sum 
is repaid,

Pay for the cost of repainting the room subject to receiving an invoice from Ms P,

Pay for a replacement carpet of similar quality to the current one subject to receiving 
an invoice from Ms P,

Pay her compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3334959
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was about 
three years old and had completed about 26,738 miles. So, I don’t think a reasonable person 
would expect it to be suffering from too much wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the car’s 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Creation haven’t provided evidence to dispute that the fault was likely to have been present 
or developing when the car was supplied to Miss C and they’ve offered a limited resolution of 
the problem. That resolution did not consider repairs to the differential. As the fault occurred 
only a couple of months after Miss C took receipt of the car and after she’d only completed 
about 2,500 additional miles, I would agree that it’s most likely this fault was present or 
developing when the car was supplied.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation gives the business an opportunity to repair 
the fault. 
I’m not persuaded a repair has been completed on the car as I think the fitting of the damper 
was part of the diagnostic – to allow the garage to identify where the noise was coming from.
So, I think Creation should complete a repair to the car and they’ll also need to reimburse 
any costs Miss C has incurred as a consequence of the car failing.
 
Putting things right
Creation should repair the nearside differential at no cost to Miss C. That work is detailed in 
the estimate provided by the franchised dealership on 27 January 2022.
Miss C had to pay for a diagnostic check and has provided us with an invoice for that work. I 
think Creation should refund that as Miss C would not have incurred that cost had the car 
been of satisfactory quality. They’ll need to add interest to that refund as Miss C has been 
deprived of the money.
Miss C has been inconvenienced by these issues. She’s had to find a garage to diagnose 
the problem and has had to arrange transport and escalate her complaint to this service 
when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think Creation 
should pay her £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss C has had very limited use of the car since 11 December 2021 and she wasn’t kept 
mobile with a courtesy vehicle. I think Creation should therefore refund any finance 
instalments Miss C paid from 11 December 2021 until the car is repaired and returned to 
Miss C. They’ll need to add interest to that refund.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Repair the nearside differential at no cost to Miss C. That work is detailed in the 
estimate provided by the franchised dealership on 27 January 2022.

Refund the £148.06 Miss C paid to have the fault diagnosed. Add 8% simple interest 
per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund any finance instalments paid since 11 December 2021 and until the car is 
repaired and returned to Miss C. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Pay Miss C £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she’s 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3336999
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has asked her to make further 
repayments after she settled a finance agreement she had with it.
What happened
Miss R had a finance agreement with Creation which she used to acquire a car in 2018. She 
contacted Creation in February 2018 and asked it for an early settlement figure. Creation 
told her she needed to pay £5,701.86 to early settle the agreement. 
Miss R was acquiring a new car at this time. The dealer she was acquiring the new car from 
paid the early settlement monies to Creation. Miss R heard nothing further.
In March 2021 Miss R started to get correspondence from Creation. It told her there was a 
balance still outstanding on her finance agreement. Miss R checked with the dealer and the 
dealer confirmed that the early settlement monies had been sent to Creation on 23 February 
2018.  Despite this, Miss R says that Creation has been sending her numerous letters 
demanding further repayments and threatening to enter a notice of default with credit 
reference agencies. Miss R complained to Creation.
Creation investigated her complaint. It said that the early settlement quotation it had sent to 
her in February 2018 made clear that the payment of £5,701.86 had to be paid before 17 
February 2018. The payment hadn’t been made until 26 February. So, a further early 
settlement figure should’ve been requested. Creation also said there’d been a failed direct 
debit on 12 February 2018 which hadn’t been included in the early settlement figure it had 
provided. Creation said there was still a balance outstanding of just over £1,000. Creation 
said it hadn’t contacted her in the period since 2018 because her account had shown up as 
being in credit. This meant there was no arrears figure recorded until March 2021.
Miss R didn’t agree. She referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
her complaint. Creation didn’t provide our service with its business file. So, our investigator 
was only able to consider the information provided by Miss R. 
Our investigator thought Creation hadn’t acted fairly. Miss R had only been made aware in 
March 2021 about the direct debit failure and the fact that the early settlement hadn’t been 
paid before 17 February 2018. Our investigator said it was reasonable to expect Creation to 
have reached out to Miss R in February 2018 to explain to her what had happened. In these 
circumstances he thought the complaint could be fairly resolved in the following way:
-
Miss R would be liable for any arrears on the account on the 26 February 2018
-
Creation should remove all charges, fees and interest applied to the account after 26 
February 2018;
-
If there was a shortfall after these actions had been taken Miss R should pay any 
shortfall which would’ve been due at 26 February 2018 and Creation should then 
close the account and record it with credit reference agencies as settled and closed;
-
Creation should remove any adverse information it had recorded with credit 
reference agencies.
Creation didn’t agree with what our investigator said. It reiterated that the early settlement 
amount had been paid after the expiry date on the letter it sent to Miss R in February 2018. It 
also said it had sent her letters on 14 February 2018 and again on 26 February 2018 to 
inform her that the direct debit had failed. 
Our investigator considered what Creation said but he didn’t change his view about how this 
complaint should be resolved.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’d just point out at the outset that Creation hasn’t responded to my request for additional 
information. So, when deciding how this complaint should be resolved, I’ve only been able to 
take into account the information Creation has already provided and the documentation and 
testimony provided by Miss R.
The Early Settlement Quotation
Miss R received an early settlement quotation from Creation on 12 February 2018. The letter 
set out the early settlement figure (£5,701.86) and the Settlement Expiry Date (17 February 
2018). There was also further information set out on the letter. It said
“Please ensure that the full Early Settlement Figure is received by Creation in cleared 
funds by the Settlement Expiry Date. In the event that the account is not settled by 
the Settlement Expiry Date, this Early Settlement Figure will be invalid. If you wish to 
settle the account after the Settlement Expiry Date, please request a new Early 
Settlement Figure. In the event that you make part-payment of the Early Settlement 
Figure, or funds are received after the Settlement Expiry Date, except by prior 
agreement, you will be liable for any shortfall.”
Miss R says she arranged for the dealer, that she was acquiring her new car from, to make 
the payment to Creation. She’s provided us with confirmation that the payment of £5,701.86 
was sent on 23 February 2018 and Creation has provided a copy of its records which show 
that the payment was received by it on 26 February 2018.
Having considered the sequence of events here, I’m satisfied that Miss R hadn’t complied 
with the arrangements for making the Early Settlement Figure. Although the full amount had 
been paid, it was paid after the Expiry Date and the quotation had made clear that in these 
circumstances, she would be liable for any shortfall.
The cancelled Direct Debit
Creation says that in addition to making the payment after the Expiry Date, Miss R also 
failed to pay a direct debit that was due on or about 12 February 2018. The Early Settlement 
Figure had assumed that this Direct Debit would be paid. I’d just point out, in passing, that 
the Early Settlement quotation was issued on 12 February 2018 and there’s nothing on that 
document to indicate what assumptions had been made when the quotation was issued.
Creation says that because the payment was made after the Expiry Date on the quotation, it 
wasn’t enough to early settle the debt. But despite that, and despite the cancelled Direct 
Debit on 12 February, the payment which was received was treated as a part-payment. This 
meant that Miss R’s account was put into credit. For that reason, Creation says it didn’t need 
to contact Miss R until her account went into arrears – which was March 2021.
I’ve thought about what Creation has said. But, having done so, I don’t think it is fair and 
reasonable for it to have taken the actions it did here. I’ll explain why.
Creation has acknowledged that on 8 March 2018, the dealer did contact it to confirm that 
the payment it had sent had cleared. It says it wasn’t able to provide any details to the dealer 
at that time due to data protection requirements. But, I think that the phone call from the 
dealer should have alerted it to the fact that the Early Settlement Figure had been received 
after the Expiry Date and that Miss R’s account was now in credit. For that reason, I think it 
would’ve been fair and reasonable for Creation to have contacted Miss R to explain to her 
that it was treating the payment received from the dealer as a part payment only. And, I think 
it would have been reasonable for Creation to have told Miss R that she would need to make 
a further payment if she wanted to close the account. It didn’t do that.
Creation says it did send correspondence to Miss R about the cancelled Direct Debit. It’s 
provided records from its systems that show a letter was sent on 14 February 2018 and a 
further letter was sent on 26 February 2018. Miss R doesn’t recall receiving these letters. 
And, although I’m satisfied on balance that the letters were sent to her, I can understand why 
she wouldn’t have queried them at the time. She thought that the agreement had been 
settled early. It is also the case that she didn’t receive any further follow-up letters or indeed 
any correspondence from Creation until March 2021 (some three years later). So, I think, on 
balance, the fact that no further correspondence was received by her would have affirmed 
her understanding and belief that the agreement had been early settled.
What needs to be done to put things right
Having considered everything I think it’s fair and reasonable to require Creation to put 
Miss R back into the position she would’ve been in if it had contacted her on 26 February 
2018 to inform her that there was still a shortfall on her account after it had received the 
early settlement amount she’d paid to it. 
So, I think Creation should refund all fees, interest and charges it’s applied to her account 
after 26 February 2018. It should calculate the amount she would’ve been required to pay to 
it on 26 February 2018 to early settle the agreement, taking into account what it’s told us 
about the cancelled direct debit. If there is still a shortfall after these actions have been taken 
Miss R should be asked to pay that amount.
If Creation has recorded any adverse information with credit reference agencies about Miss 
R’s account for the period after February 2018, it should remove that information.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
I now require it to take the following actions:
-
Remove all charges, fees and interest applied to Miss R’s account after 26 February 
2018;
-
Calculate the amount Miss R would’ve been required to pay to early settle the 
account on 26 February 2018, taking into account the cancelled direct debit payment; 
-
If there is a shortfall after these actions are taken Miss R should pay any shortfall 
which would’ve been due at 26 February 2018 and Creation should then close the 
account and record it with credit reference agencies as settled and closed;
-
Creation should remove any adverse information it has recorded with credit reference 
agencies about Miss R’s account for the period after 26 February 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3337066
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
loan application. 
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M applied for a £5,000 loan over a four year term with Creation. In his 
application, Mr M said he had an income of £1,650 a month and paid rent of £300. Creation 
says it completed a credit search and found monthly commitments for unsecured loans of 
£541 and around £4,000 of revolving credit. 
Creation says the loan was approved in line with its lending criteria. Mr M missed two 
payments in 2019 and went on to clear the outstanding balance. 
Last year, Mr M complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly. Creation didn’t uphold 
Mr M’s complaint and he referred it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
upheld Mr M’s complaint and asked Creation to refund all interest and charges applied to the 
loan from inception. They also asked Creation to remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr M’s credit file. 
The investigator’s findings were issued in September 2021 and Creation sent in some further 
information. But the investigator’s view didn’t change and despite multiple attempts to obtain 
a response to the complaint assessment, we didn’t hear back from Creation. As Creation 
didn’t respond to the investigator, Mr M’s complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Creation had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrower’s circumstances. The 
nature of what’s considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like: 
-
The amount of credit;
-
The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
-
The duration of the agreement;
-
The costs of the credit; and 
-
The consumer’s individual circumstances. 
That means there’s no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding what’s reasonable and proportionate.
I’ve looked at the information Creation had available when it considered Mr M’s loan 
application. I note Mr M’s unsecured loan repayments and outstanding balance were 
reasonably high when compared against his income. And whilst Creation took Mr M’s rent 
and borrowing into account, I haven’t seen anything that shows it factored other regular 
outgoings into its assessment. I think it’s reasonable to say borrowers are likely to have 
regular outgoings that aren’t covered by rent and unsecured credit. Taken with the four year 
term of the loan, I think Creation should’ve considered completing better checks to ensure 
the loan repayments were sustainable. 
As noted above, there’s no set list of checks Creation had to complete. But an option for 
verifying a consumer’s circumstances would’ve been to get a copy of Mr M’s bank 
statements for the period running up to the application. Mr M has sent us copies of the 
relevant bank statements. They show Mr M’s outgoings were higher than Creation found 
when completing a credit search. The statements show that Mr M’s income was lower than 
the figure given in the application. 
Had Creation completed better checks I think it would’ve found further borrowing was 
unsustainable for Mr M and declined to proceed. As a result, I’m upholding Mr M’s compliant. 
It wouldn’t be fair for Creation to report adverse information about a debt that was lent 
irresponsibly. So I’m also going to tell Creation to remove any adverse information reported 
on Mr M’s credit file in relation to this loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
-
Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr M’s loan from inception to redemption
-
Pay interest on the above at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*
-
Remove any adverse information recorded about this loan from Mr M’s credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Creation should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3340526
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M and Ms S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t settled their 
claim against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms S bought solar panels for their home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr M and Ms S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t. 
Creation offered to restructure the loan to make the panels cost no more than the benefit 
they would provide over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of 
the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance.
Our adjudicator thought the offer was fair. Mr M and Ms S had some questions about this but 
were not satisfied with the answers provided. As such they asked for an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Creation has made an offer of settlement. So, I don’t need to decide if there was a 
misrepresentation – only what must happen to put this right. I set this out below.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr M and Ms S’s 
complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr M and Ms S from the solar panels over a 
ten-year period so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, and 
any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr M and Ms S is paying (or has paid) more than 
they should have, then Creation needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the 
calculation show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the 
calculation should be shared with Mr M and Ms S by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr M and Ms S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr M and Ms S in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr M and Ms S have the following options as 
to how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and Ms S and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr M and Ms S and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr M and Ms S accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr M and Ms S has settled the loan, Creation should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr M and Ms S has settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance, to Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr M and Ms S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M and Ms S receives their 
refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr M and Ms S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr M and Ms S receives their 
refund.
5.
Pay Mr M and Ms S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr M and Ms S 
first contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr M and Ms S’s complaint. Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3343973
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that the mileage of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t correct.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr D under a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance that he electronically signed in September 2020. There were some issues with the 
car and Mr D paid a manufacturer’s dealer £198 for a vehicle health check in June 2021. 
The health check identified the required work but also identified that the car’s instrument 
panel had been manipulated and that there was a discrepancy on the car’s mileage. The 
warranty company said that it wouldn’t pay for the required work so Mr D contacted the 
dealer. He also complained to Creation Consumer Finance and then to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
there was sufficient evidence to suggest that the car wasn’t as described because the 
mileage had been tampered with before the car was supplied to Mr D and that, had he been 
aware of the accurate mileage, he wouldn’t have purchased it. He said that the 
misrepresentation may cause problems should Mr D wish to sell the car in the future. He 
recommended that Creation Consumer Finance should unwind the contract, collect the car 
and return the deposit.
Both Creation Consumer Finance and Mr D have asked for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. Creation Consumer Finance says that the dealer has informed it that 
there appear to have been a number of repairs carried out on the car under warranty and the 
warranty would have been invalidated if the car had a genuine mileage discrepancy. It also 
says that the car passed an MOT test in February 2022 when it’s mileage was recorded as 
43,662 so a full refund is completely unreasonable. It says that both it and the dealer don’t 
agree with the recommended outcome.
Mr D says that he’s done nothing wrong but has paid the deposit and made monthly 
payments of nearly £500 with the intention of keeping the car so returning it means that he’s 
paid over £7,000 for a car that he won’t have. He says that if he returns the car he wants all 
the money that he paid for it back so that he can invest in a new car. He says that he’ll 
accept a similar car of his choice with the same equivalent value.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mr D entered into a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer Finance in 
September 2019 for a used car to be supplied to him – the car was about 18 months 
old, its mileage was shown on the agreement as 16,654 miles and it had a price of 
£22,199;

Mr D made an advance payment of £107 for the car and agreed to make 59 monthly 
payments of £493.59 and a final payment of £494.59 for the car to be supplied to 
him;

there were some issues with the car and Mr D paid a manufacturer’s dealer £198 for 
a vehicle health check in June 2021 - the health check identified the required work 
but also identified that the car’s instrument panel had been manipulated and that 
there was a discrepancy on the car’s mileage; 

it provided a vehicle history which showed the following mileages for the car: 9 miles 
in March 2019, 69,315 miles and then 6,930 miles and 6,934 miles in October 2019, 
71,399 miles in January 2020, and 26,292 miles and 27,075 miles in June 2021;

the manufacturer’s dealer’s invoice says: “Vehicle has had the instrument cluster 
manipulated”;

Mr D said in December 2021 that the car’s mileage was 36,000 miles and the car 
passed an MOT test in February 2022 when it’s mileage was recorded as 43,662 
miles (which was about 27,000 miles more than when the car was supplied to him);

the mileage of 69,315 in October 2019 could be an administrative error as the other 
mileages at the time were 6,930 and 6,934 but I don’t consider that it’s likely that a 
second administrative error would have been made when the car’s mileage was 
recorded as 71,399 in January 2020;

I consider it to be more likely than not that there’s an issue with the car’s mileage and 
that its instrument cluster was manipulated before the car was supplied to Mr D;

I don’t consider that Mr D would have entered into the hire purchase agreement if 
he’d known about the mileage discrepancy and that the instrument cluster had been 
manipulated and I’m not persuaded that those issues can now be adequately 
corrected; 

I don’t consider that any warranty repairs carried out on the car before June 2021 are 
enough to show that the car doesn’t have a mileage discrepancy; and

I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation 
Consumer Finance to allow Mr D to reject the car and to take the other actions 
described below.
Putting things right
I find that Creation Consumer Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange 
for the car to be collected from Mr D – both at no cost him. The hire purchase agreement 
shows that Mr D paid a deposit of £107 for the car and I find that it would also be fair and 
reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to refund that deposit to him.
Mr D was able to use the car to drive about 27,000 miles between September 2020 (when it 
was supplied to him) and February 2022 (when it passed an MOT test) and the car has 
remained available for him to use since then. I consider that it’s fair and reasonable for him 
to pay for the use that he’s had from the car. He clearly feels that he should receive a refund 
of his monthly payments but I find that it’s fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer 
Finance to keep his monthly payments as payment for the use that he’s had from the car. 
I don’t consider that it would be appropriate for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to 
supply an equivalent replacement car to Mr D or to take any other action (other than as 
described above) in response to his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr D – both at no cost to him.
2.
Refund to Mr D the deposit that he paid for the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3344597
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains about the redress Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has provided 
since they agreed to allow him to reject a car he had been financing through an agreement 
with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In their final response to Mr H Creation accepted that the car hadn’t been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied and agreed to close his finance agreement and refund all payments 
less a deduction for the mileage Mr H had completed. They also explained that they would 
reimburse the £350.24 Mr H had paid to for a diagnostic and to have the wheels realigned.
Creation haven’t provided any further evidence about what was reimbursed but Mr H has 
explained that they subsequently made a deduction of £583.05 for fair usage when returning 
his finance payments and that they only refunded £1,826 of his £2,500 deposit. Mr H says 
they haven’t provided a refund of the road tax and car insurance he was paying whilst the 
car was off the road and that they’ve not refunded other consequential costs amounting to 
£895.96, incurred investigating the fault and attempting to repair it when discussing the 
matter with the dealership.
In a case like this our service would usually tell the business to end the finance agreement, 
refund the deposit, refund any finance instalments that have been paid less a deduction for 
the usage the consumer has had, and refund any consequential costs along with a 
compensatory payment for any distress and inconvenience caused. I don’t think the redress 
provided by Creation has done that, so I’ve considered how to put things right for Mr H.
 
Putting things right
Creation should end the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H, if they 
haven’t already done so.
They should refund the deposit of £2,500 that Mr H paid, and they should add interest to that 
refund as Mr H has been deprived of that money.
Mr H says he only drove the car for 899 miles and as the fault has been confirmed as 
relating to pre-existing accident damage it’s clear he will have been having problems with it 
from the beginning of the agreement. I think it would be fair for Creation to withhold one 
monthly finance instalment in respect of fair usage. So, they can keep £362.98 of the finance 
instalments Mr H has paid but must return anything paid in excess of that, adding interest to 
the refund.
Mr H’s finance agreement asked him to keep the car insured and taxed and he therefore 
incurred costs to do so whilst the car was off the road and before Creation approved 
rejection of the vehicle. So, Creation should provide a pro-rata refund of Mr H’s road tax and 
car insurance for the period from November 2020 until May 2021, inclusive. Mr H has 
provided evidence of those costs that add up to £836.16. Interest will need to be added to 
any refund.
Mr H has also evidenced costs of £895.96 that he paid to have the fault diagnosed and 
repaired and as those costs were incurred as a consequence of the car being supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition, I think Creation should refund them, with interest. They’ve already 
refunded £350.24 of those costs.
It’s clear that Mr H has been inconvenienced by these issues. He’s had to take the car for 
repairs and diagnostic checks, and he’s had to escalate his complaint to this service when I 
think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I would agree with our 
investigator that Creation should pay Mr H £250 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he’s experienced.
Creation can deduct from this settlement anything they’ve already paid/refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr H, unless they’ve 
already done so.

Refund the deposit of £2,500 and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund all finance instalments that Mr H paid less £362.98 for fair usage. Add 8% 
simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.

Provide a pro-rata refund of car insurance and road tax for the period Mr H was 
unable to drive his car but had to keep it covered. That amount is £836.16. Creation 
should add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the 
date of their final response accepting rejection.

Refund £895.96 of consequential costs relating to diagnostics and repairs paid for by 
Mr H. Add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.

Pay Mr H £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s 
experienced.

Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr H’s credit file in 
relation to this issue.

Creation can deduct from this settlement anything they’ve already paid/refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3345464
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr W into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation appeared to agree with the view and said it would make an offer, but 
it didn’t actually make an offer to settle the complaint. So, the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mr W accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr W by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr W’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr W in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr W’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr W 
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr W and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr W accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept
If Mr W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mr W the difference between what he paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr W has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr W should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr W paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr W receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3351808
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s handling of her Catalogue 
Shopping Account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them in detail 
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.

Mrs B said she had made payments to her account on time. But she discovered 
around April 2020 that missed payments were incorrectly being reported to credit 
agencies.

Mrs B said she wanted to pay off the balance on her account. But because of the 
issues, she had been provided an incorrect remaining balance and was worried that 
would affect her ability to apply for any further credit elsewhere 

Mrs B has also raised issues regarding Creation not updating her account to her 
married name.

Creation said Mrs B had missed a payment in April 2020 by paying late, so the 
reporting of a late payment for that month was correct.

Creation did however acknowledge two payments made by Mrs B in April 2020, took 
nearly a month to be allocated correctly in its system. So, it would remove any 
negative reporting after April 2020 from Mrs B’s credit file.

Mrs B was unhappy with Creation’s response, so she brought her complaint to our 
service
Our Investigator said he had seen sufficient information to persuade him a payment was 
missed in April 2020. So, Creation had been fair to report this to credit reference agencies. 
He said that around October 2020, Creation had told its internal credit team to remove any 
negative reporting for May 2020. But this meant the payments had been incorrectly reported 
up until this time – which he had seen in credit reports provided by Mrs B.
Our investigator said he wasn’t persuaded the issues had affected Mrs B’s ability to apply for 
further credit. But he did think it had caused Mrs B distress. He also said he’d seen Mrs B 
had raised the issues regarding her name with Creation several times, but this had not been 
actioned. He recommended Creation pay Mrs B £100 for the inconvenience.
Creation and Mrs B accepted our investigator’s recommendation.
Further developments
Mrs B later returned to our service as she said the missed payment for May 2020 was still 
showing on her credit report. 
Our Investigator said Mrs B has provided copies of Credit Reports from two different 
agencies that show the missed payment for May 2020 was still showing as recently as June 
2021. So, he was persuaded that while Creation had instructed their credit team to remove 
the missed payment, it hadn’t been actioned.
Our investigator recommended Creation pay Mrs B a further £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
Creation didn’t respond to our investigator. So, the complaint has now passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Its not in dispute that a payment was made late in April 2020. Financial organisations 
have an obligation report a true representation of an account. So I don’t think 
Creation have acted unreasonably in reporting this to credit agencies. 

However, Creation accepted a further payment for May 2020 should not have been 
reported. But I’ve seen a copy of Mrs B’s credit report from two different reporting 
agencies, that shows the incorrect payment was still being reported in June 2021 – 
around a year after the initial issue.

I’ve not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me this one missed payment alone 
would affect Mrs B’s ability to obtain credit. But I do think it would have caused 
ongoing concern that it remained on her credit file incorrectly, particularly after our 
service’s involvement and Creation’s reassurance it would be removed

I’ve not seen any evidence to show the payment has been amended to date, but for 
avoidance of doubt, Creation should do as it said it would do in October 2020 and 
remove the incorrectly reported missed payment from May 2020 from Mrs B’s credit 
report if it has not already done so

With the above in mind I agree with our investigator that Creation should pay Mrs B a 
further £100 compensation, taking the total award to £200. I think this is within a 
reasonable range to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mrs B has been 
caused.
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Creation to:

Pay Mrs B £200 compensation

Ensure all adverse credit information regarding the May 2020 missed payment is 
removed from Mrs B’s credit report
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs B’s complaint.
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do as I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3351995
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr I complains that a new boiler was not installed with reasonable care and skill. Because 
the installation was paid for with credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, he says 
that it is equally liable with the supplier to put things right.  
What happened
In March 2021 Mr I entered into an agreement with a company, G, for the supply and 
installation of a household boiler at a cost of just over £2,000. The supply and installation 
were to be paid for by a loan arranged by G and provided by Creation. Mr I was to repay the 
loan over two years, starting a year after the installation. 
Mr I says that there were a number of problems with the installation. These fell into two 
broad categories: problems with the safety of the electrical work connected with the new 
boiler; and damage to his kitchen cupboards, work surfaces and splashback. 
Mr I contacted an electrician to check the installation. He identified a number of issues which 
made the installation unsafe. They included a cracked socket, wires that were not sufficiently 
well insulated, electrical wires too close to gas pipes, insufficient earthing and a failure to 
meet wiring regulations. He indicated that the cost of putting things right – including a call-
out charge and investigation – would be £455. 
Mr I also said that there was blow-torch damage to the kitchen worktop and splashback and 
that a cupboard had been cut into without his agreement. He provided photographs of the 
damage and two quotes to replace the damaged worktops and splashback. 
Mr I complained to G and to Creation. Creation did not respond other than to say that it was 
waiting for further information from G. Mr I therefore referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not think that the work had been carried out to a satisfactory standard, for 
the reasons Mr I had given. She recommended that Creation pay Mr I the costs of the 
rectification work. Creation, despite reminders, did not respond, although it appears that it 
did receive some communication from G saying that Mr I had not been in touch for several 
months. The case was therefore passed to me for further consideration.        
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, subject to certain 
conditions, a customer who has a claim for breach of contract against a supplier of goods or 
services can also bring that claim against the provider of credit used to pay for those goods 
or services. One such condition is that the credit is provided under arrangements between 
the supplier and the lender. In this case, the loan agreement between Mr I and Creation was 
arranged by G, and the contract for the supply and installation of the boiler was between Mr I 
and G. I am satisfied that the necessary relationships were present for section 75 to apply. 
The contract between Mr I and G was to be read as including a term that the boiler would be 
installed with reasonable care and skill. In my view, that includes the safety of the installation 
and not causing unnecessary damage when carrying out the work. 
The report provided by the electrician set out a number of areas of concern and explained 
the work needed to make the installation safe. It also provided an indication of the cost of 
remedial work. None of that should have been necessary, since the boiler installation and 
the associated electrical work should have been carried out in line with relevant safety 
standards and regulations. I believe it is reasonable to require Creation to cover these. 
The photographs that Mr I has provided do show some minor damage to the worktop and 
splashback. The quotes he has provided are for complete replacements, even though the 
damage is quite limited. Mr I has said however that the original material is no longer 
available, and Creation has not suggested, for example, that a cheaper repair might be 
feasible. Mr I’s worktop might therefore be an improvement on what he had before the new 
boiler was installed. In the absence of any comment from Creation about alternatives, 
however, I do not believe that is unfair or unreasonable.              
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that Creation should cover the costs of the remedial electrical 
work and replacing the worktop and splashback. As far as the latter is concerned, I think a 
fair award would be the average of the two quotes that Mr I obtained.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr I’s complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay him £455 in respect of electrical work and £2,114.50 to cover the cost of the worktop 
and splashback. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3353002
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances, such as the 
mileage and age of the car when supplied. 
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the car’s 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
I’m not persuaded Creation have provided sufficient information to dispute that assumption. 
Mr S had only just taken receipt of the car when it first broke down. It was therefore much 
more likely that the swarf in the system had been generated at some time before he took 
receipt of the car than during his very limited time in possession.
The relevant legislation gives consumers a right to reject the goods if a fault is identified in 
the first 30 days. In those circumstances they don’t have to give the business an opportunity 
to repair the goods.
Mr S returned the goods to the dealership within 30 days but was advised he couldn’t reject 
them. I think the business should have allowed Mr S to invoke his 30-day short-term 
rejection right and I don’t think it matters that he didn’t talk to Creation about that until he’d 
exhausted the process with the dealership. He’d already made his request.
Putting things right
Mr S has explained that he sold the car and settled the agreement with Creation. I can see 
that Creation responded to us about that in March. They said they couldn’t check their 
system at the time to see if Mr S had settled things and they explained he didn’t own the car 
to sell it. 
I’ve no reason to doubt Mr S’s version of events, he says the car was bought by a dealership 
in the summer of 2021 and they settled the finance. So, it seems that there is nothing 
outstanding on the agreement and no longer a car to return.
But it’s clear that Mr S’s use of the car was impacted by the fault he had with it. He‘s 
explained that he couldn’t use the car after it broke down for a second time in June 2020 and 
until it was repaired in August 2020. Creation should therefore refund any payments Mr S 
made towards his agreement in those months as he had no use of the car in that time. 
They’ll need to add interest to that refund as Mr S has been deprived of the money. Mr S has 
suggested his use was impacted even more than that, but I don’t think I have sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that was the case.
Mr S has explained that he incurred some expenses as a result of the problems he had with 
the car. He’s provided a receipt for £428.98 that he paid to diagnose the fault. But I’ve not 
seen evidence of the other costs he seeks to recover and in the absence of that evidence it 
wouldn’t be fair to ask Creation to refund anything other than the charge for the diagnostic.
Mr S has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters. He’s broken down a couple of times 
on the motorway and has needed to be recovered, and he’s had to escalate his complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I’d 
agree with the investigator’s suggestion that Creation pay him £300 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund any finance instalments paid by Mr S in June, July, and August 2020 in 
respect of the impaired use he had from the car, adding 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund the £428.98 he paid for the diagnostic report, adding 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.

Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr S’s credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3354070
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd cancelled a direct debit and set 
up a payment break for a personal loan she’d with them.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss W said she called Creation after she’d been told they’d cancelled her 
direct debit for a personal loan she’d with them. Miss W then found that Creation had applied 
a payment break to her personal loan account. She complained to them
Creation said they’d received a report to cancel the direct debit mandate for her personal; 
loan account, and they were bound to take this action. They said they’d listened to Miss W’s 
call with them and accepted that the payment break had been implemented in error. They 
offered Miss W £75 in recognition of this and gave assurance that her credit file wouldn’t be 
impacted.
Miss W wasn’t happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Creation had followed instructions they’d received to cancel the direct 
debit mandate. And their offer of £75 was fair and reasonable. So, she didn’t ask for 
Creation to do anything further.
Miss W didn’t agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Miss W feels strongly that Creation’s actions weren’t correct and that she’s suffered  
as a result. Firstly, I’ll explain our role, we’re an informal dispute resolution service, acting as 
an alternative to the courts. This means we’re impartial and look at both sides of the story. 
We don’t place more weight on one side’s story because of who they are. We ask questions 
and weigh up all the information we’re given. 
Having considered what has happened, I’m not upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why
Direct debit cancellation
Miss W said she’d asked to cancel a direct debit for repayment of a credit card she’d with 
Creation. But instead Creation had cancelled the direct debit for a personal loan she’d with 
them.
Direct debits are processed through a scheme called Bankers Automated Clearing Services
(BACS).  Automated Direct Debit Amendment and Cancellation (ADDAC) reports detail any 
direct debit Instructions that have been amended and/or cancelled. And it’s strongly 
recommended that direct debit changes are applied immediately to avoid the risk of 
misdirected or failed collections. In February 2021 Creation received a ADDAC report which 
showed that a direct debit instruction Miss W had with Creation had been cancelled. The 
“reason code” stated “Instruction cancelled by payer”.
Any direct debit instruction should have the account reference of the agreement as an 
identifier as it’s this reference number that would confirm which instruction was being 
cancelled. Creation has said their process is automated for actioning ADDAC reports, so for 
the credit card direct debit to be cancelled the identifier would have needed to be for that 
account. But Creation has said the identifier was for Miss W’s personal loan account. And 
that they had actioned the requested cancellation. 
I’ve thought about what might have been the cause of this problem, as it looks likely that the 
wrong identifier was applied to the direct debit instruction to cancel. The ADDACS report 
stated that the direct debit instruction had been cancelled by the payer (Miss W). Whilst I 
understand Miss W says she never requested that action for her personal loan with Creation, 
I can’t say Creation would be at fault for following the direct debit cancellation instructions 
that they were given.
As the report says it was Miss W who’d requested the cancellation, it’s reasonable to require 
a new mandate to be completed showing her consent to set it back up. So, whilst I can’t say 
what caused the direct debit to be cancelled with any certainty, I haven’t seen anything to 
suggest Creation did anything wrong in this regard. And I’m satisfied they acted reasonably 
by asking for a new mandate to be completed.
Payment break
In early March 2021 Miss W queried the cancellation of the direct debit with Creation. And 
Creation have accepted that there was an error made as a payment break was implemented 
despite Miss W not asking for this action to be taken. I can understand Miss W’s concern 
about any impact this would have on her credit history. When Miss W brought her complaint 
to Creation she was told the payment break details couldn’t be removed from her credit file 
“before the period had ended”. Creation has given assurance that this has now been 
removed (the payment break period has ended), and that there wouldn’t be any impact 
caused by this. 
I know Miss W will be disappointed by my decision. But its not our role to punish a business 
when they get something wrong. But to see whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in 
putting things right. Miss W said she continued to make her regular repayments during the 
“payment break” period so this error hasn’t caused any arrears to accrue on the account. 
And a new direct debit mandate was set up once the payment break concluded. I 
understand this has caused some trouble and upset for Miss W, Creation has accepted that 
that got things wrong and have offered to pay £75 for the trouble and upset this caused 
which I think is a reasonable offer. So, I won’t instruct them to pay anything more than this. 
But I expect this payment to now be paid by Creation to Miss W.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3354473
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains about a decision by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) not to 
uphold a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 
75”) about faulty headphones.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 75 claim. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I think there has been a breach of contract here. When Mr B returned his headphones the 
report from the manufacturer said that the reported fault was the left ear was broken and 
they’d identified a broken headband. The report said an estimate for a replacement had 
been raised but that there’d been no response. 
When goods fail so early the onus is on the business to demonstrate they weren’t faulty 
when supplied. I don’t think the report from the manufacturer shows this; it says nothing 
about the cause of the failure.
So, in those circumstances, the relevant legislation allows the business to repair or replace 
the goods. 
But here, Mr B returned his headphones in July 2020 and didn’t receive a response from the 
business until April 2021. That was a very long time and I don’t think it would be fair to 
replace the goods as I think it’s very likely Mr B will have found a new set of headphones. In 
those circumstances I think it would be more reasonable to refund the cost of the goods.
Putting things right
Creation will need to refund the cost of the goods with interest as Mr B has been deprived of 
that money.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund the £269 Mr B paid for the headphones and add 8% simple interest per year 
to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund any interest Mr B may have incurred on the purchase, adding 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3358762
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) dealt with his claim 
made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’).
What happened
In March 2020 Mr G bought a fridge freezer from a supplier using credit provided by 
Creation. Mr G says he wasn’t happy with it and complained to the supplier shortly after 
taking delivery. He says he wanted to return it and get a different one.
Mr G says the supplier wasn’t responsive, so he approached Creation for help via a Section 
75 claim. However, Mr G was not happy with how Creation handled this. In summary, he 
says that Creation took too long to respond and didn’t give him the outcome he wanted.
Creation referred Mr G to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. In summary, 
she said that in the circumstances the supplier should have let Mr G return the goods for an 
exchange or refund. By not doing so it was in breach of contract and therefore it was fair and 
reasonable for Creation to put things right by taking back the goods and refunding Mr G what 
he has paid to date. She also said that despite the situation surrounding the pandemic 
Creation could have handled Mr G’s claim more promptly – so she recommended it pay him 
£100 compensation as well.
Creation did not respond to our investigator’s view (except to send over information it had 
already provided) so the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
Mr G used a credit account to pay for the goods which means that Section 75 is relevant to 
this case. Section 75 allows Mr G to hold Creation responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit afforded here.
There are certain technical criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be
valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction,
or the way the payment was made. 
In this case I am satisfied the criteria for a valid Section 75 claim against Creation are in
place. And although I am not deciding the Section 75 claim, I am considering whether
Creation acted fairly in the circumstances. In order to determine whether Creation
acted fairly I have considered if the supplier breached its contract with regard to the written 
terms of sale and any relevant law.
I have reviewed and considered the supplier’s general terms and conditions. While it isn’t 
clear if these were the exact terms and conditions in place at the time Mr G purchased the 
goods in the absence of either party providing other terms and conditions I consider it fair to 
rely on these.
I have also considered the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (‘CRA’) which is relevant to this 
complaint. It implies a term into Mr G’s contract with the supplier that the goods he 
purchased will be of ‘satisfactory quality’. 
Mr G has provided email evidence that he contacted the supplier very shortly after purchase 
to say he was unhappy with the goods. He mentioned both the quality of the goods and the 
storage capacity inside did not meet his expectations. Mr G has later clarified that the quality 
issues were cosmetic issues – he says the fridge freezer had scratches all over it.
It is unlikely Mr G’s discovery that the storage in the fridge did not meet his needs would be 
considered a breach of the CRA implied term I mention above. However, if the item was 
delivered scratched (even in a minor way) then this would not be what a reasonable person 
would expect of brand-new goods. It would in my view render the goods of unsatisfactory 
quality. And because Mr G rejected the goods within the first 30 days of having them he 
would fairly be able to reject these for a refund via the rights afforded in the CRA.
Mr G has been consistent and clear in his testimony but has not (as far as I can see) sent in 
photographic evidence of the condition of the goods when they arrived. This makes it more 
difficult for me to conclude the goods supplied were not of satisfactory quality. However, 
because of the supplier’s general terms and conditions I don’t consider it necessary to 
consider this issue further. I will explain.
Even if the goods were not considered of unsatisfactory quality the supplier’s terms are very 
clear that a customer is able to change their mind and notify of an intention to return goods 
‘for whatever reason’ for 21 days after delivery (for unopened goods) and 14 days after 
delivery otherwise. I have looked at the communication Mr G has sent, and it is clear he 
rejected the goods within 14 days. So under the contract he has with the supplier he should 
have been allowed to do so.
I have not been provided with persuasive evidence that the supplier was willing to abide by 
its terms and remedy the situation by allowing Mr G to reject the goods. The supplier has 
claimed that Mr G agreed to a £30 partial refund to settle the matter – however Mr G said he 
did not agree to this and the supplier credited his account without his consent or knowledge. 
I have not been provided with persuasive evidence that Mr G did agree to this settlement 
and it seems unlikely he was aware of this as it appears to have been credited to his finance 
account in between multiple emails he sent to the supplier asking to reject the goods.
Overall, I am persuaded the supplier has breached its contract with Mr G and that it should 
have allowed him to reject the goods for a full refund. It follows that with Section 75 in mind 
Creation should put things right. It should arrange for collection of the goods and end any 
further liability in relation to the item on the credit account, refunding all his payments to said 
finance to date with out of pocket interest on the payments he made. 
Customer service
Mr G is unhappy with how long Creation took to give him a response to his claim. I have 
noted the unprecedented situation surrounding the pandemic at the time. Which might 
reasonably explain why responses were not as timely or as tailored as Mr G might have 
expected. However, despite this I think Creation took an unreasonably long time to deal with 
his claim – not giving him an outcome for over eight months. I think that has caused him 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and warrants compensation. I think the £100 the 
investigator has recommended is appropriate to reflect this here – and Mr G appears to 
agree. Creation has not persuaded me that this wouldn’t be a fair amount of compensation, 
so I am directing it to pay this.
Putting things right
For the reasons above I consider it fair and reasonable for Creation to refund Mr G all 
payments he made (including interest and charges) for the fridge freezer and arrange it to be 
collected. It should also ensure his credit file isn’t adversely impacted by what has happened 
and that Mr G doesn’t have any future liability under the credit account for this item. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

arrange to collect the fridge freezer at no cost to Mr G

end the credit agreed for the fridge freezer and refund all payments Mr G has made 
towards it

pay interest on the refunds at the rate of 8% simple each year from the date each 
payment was made to the date of settlement

pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused

remove any adverse information from Mr G’s credit file in respect of this matter
If Creation considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr G with a certificate of tax deduction so he might claim a refund if 
appropriate. If Creation does not pay the £100 compensation element within 28 days of 
being notified that Mr G has accepted my final decision then it should pay interest on this at 
a rate of 8% simple each year calculated from the date of my decision to the date of 
payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3358908
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss W complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) responded to 
a claim she made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’).
What happened
In January 2020 Miss W bought a sofa with a fixed sum loan from Creation. She says that 
delivery was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and she finally received it around June 
2020. She says the delivery process was unsatisfactory. However, she is also unhappy with 
the quality of the item. She says that she noticed several faults and wants to reject it for a 
refund. In summary she says the sofa:

has foam padding missing

has poorly finished coverings including a visible patch of glue

has a stitching fault
Miss W wasn’t able to get the matter resolved by the retailer as it went into liquidation shortly 
after she received the sofa. So she approached Creation in July 2020 to make a Section 75 
claim as it provided the finance for the sofa. 
In November 2020 Creation responded to Miss W and offered to inspect the sofa with a view 
to repair but Miss W didn’t think this was acceptable. She says that she paid for a brand-new 
item which was faulty on delivery and to her this would feel like getting a refurbished item.
Creation would not offer Miss W anything more – so she complained about the way it 
handled her Section 75 claim. The matter ended up at this service and our investigator 
upheld the complaint. In summary, she concluded the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality and 
considered it fair and reasonable in the circumstances (and with Section 75 in mind) that 
Miss W be able to reject it for a refund. She also awarded compensation because of the way 
Creation handled the claim.
Miss W agreed with our investigator, but Creation did not respond so the matter has come to 
me for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W paid for the sofa using credit provided by Creation. In this case I am considering 
whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled her request for help. 
Section 75 can allow Miss W to hold Creation responsible for breach of contract or
misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or services purchased using the credit
afforded here. However, there are certain criteria that have to be met for Section 75 to apply
to a particular transaction. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the
parties to the transaction, or the way the payment was made. I am satisfied that these 
criteria are met here.
In order to decide if Creation has acted fairly in the way it handled the claim I have gone on 
to consider whether the supplier of the sofa has breached its contract or misrepresented 
things to Miss W.
the quality of the furniture
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (‘CRA’) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory”. To be considered “satisfactory”, the goods would need to meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory – taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods.
Creation wants to get an expert report to assess the condition of the sofa. However, in the 
circumstances I don’t think that is necessary. I say this because:

Miss W has provided credible and consistent testimony as to the issues she had with 
the goods immediately on delivery; and

she has provided photos which appear to be taken from when the sofa was first 
delivered and clearly show:
o
indentation of the padding (appears to be foam missing or damaged)
o
puckering of the material/poor stitching
o
what appears to be glue residue on the upholstery
What I have seen in the pictures is not what I would expect to see of a brand-new sofa. I 
also don’t think what has happened is likely to be explainable by something which is Miss 
W’s fault particularly as the photos look to have been taken when the sofa had just arrived.
All things considered I think that a reasonable person would not consider the goods that 
Miss W received to be of satisfactory quality. Because of this breach of the implied term in 
her contract with the supplier I think she is entitled to a remedy.
Creation have proposed repair should the sofa be found to be in need of this. But Miss W 
has provided credible testimony that on discovery of the faults she requested a refund from 
the supplier within a couple of days of delivery. The CRA allows Miss W to reject goods 
which are not of satisfactory quality within the first 30 days following the day of delivery. So 
in this case, I consider it fair and reasonable she is able to get a refund rather than having to 
accept a repair or replacement. Therefore, Creation need to collect the sofa at no cost to 
Miss W, end the finance agreement and refund her all payments she has made to date 
(including interest and charges) plus out of pocket interest. It should also ensure her credit 
file is not adversely affected by this matter.
Miss W has mentioned that the way the goods were delivered was very poor and that the 
item was left outside and not brought in and fully assembled. However, I do not consider it 
necessary to focus on these things in light of my findings about the quality of the sofa – 
which alone provides her with the remedy she seeks.
the handling of the claim
The unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that a financial business 
such as Creation might not reasonably be expected to respond in as timely or tailored way 
as it would do usually. However, even keeping this in mind I note that it took too long 
(around four months) to provide a response to the Section 75 claim. This has caused Miss W 
avoidable distress and inconvenience so I think that Creation should also fairly pay the £50 
compensation our investigator has already recommended.
Putting things right
Allow Miss W to reject the sofa and pay her the compensation as directed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

arrange to collect the sofa at no cost to Miss W

end the finance agreement and refund all payments Miss W has made to date 
(ensuring her credit file is not adversely affected by this matter)

pay interest on the refunded payments at the rate of 8% simple per year from the 
date of each payment to the date of settlement

pay Miss W £50 for distress and inconvenience 
If Creation is required to deduct tax from my interest award it should provide Miss W with a
certificate of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate. 
If Miss W accepts my decision and Creation does not pay the £50 compensation within 28 
days of being notified of said acceptance then it should also pay 8% simple yearly interest 
on this amount calculated from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3360199
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had covered around 
67000 miles.
When he was looking at the car before agreeing to buy it, Mr S noticed that there were 
warning lights illuminated relating to the rear set and low tyre pressure. One of the tyres had 
a puncture which the dealership said it would repair before Mr S collected the car.
When Mr S collected the car, he discovered that the puncture hadn’t been repaired. He 
purchased a tyre himself but within a short time the low pressure warning illuminated again. 
Mr S took the car back to the dealer who found that an issue with the alloy wheels was 
causing repeated punctures. This was rectified at no cost to Mr S.
Whilst the car was with the dealership, Mr S advised that the rear seat warning light was still 
illuminated. He says the dealership never investigated or resolved this.
In May 2021 the car went into drivetrain mode and the warning light illuminated. The car was 
recovered and taken to a specialist, who found that the diesel particulate filter was blocked 
and that due to poor oil condition the turbo charger had failed. The specialist quoted repair 
costs of around £5,500.
Mr S complained to Creation about the quality of the car. In response, Creation said the 
issue was due to lack of oil and that neither it nor the dealer would be liable if the car hadn’t 
been maintained correctly.
Mr S wasn’t happy with Creations response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that based on the information from the 
specialist garage, there was a fault with the drivetrain which was likely to have been caused 
by a lack of servicing. The investigator said that because the car was sold to Mr S as being 
“fully serviced”, Creation needed to put things right. The investigator said that Mr S should 
be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund of costs he’d incurred in relation to tyre 
repairs and diagnostic tests. 
Creation asked for copies of the invoices but didn’t say whether it accepted the investigators 
view. So I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I’d expect a second hand car such as that 
supplied to Mr S to have a degree of wear and tear, and to require repair and maintenance 
more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that that car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, as opposed to 
being affected by a fault which occurred die to general wear and tear.
Based on the evidence I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that the car has a fault. In relation to the tyres, 
Mr S says that he paid for replacement tyres before the fault with the alloy wheels was 
diagnosed and rectified by the dealership. The issue hasn’t occurred since the repairs were 
carried out by the dealership, so I’m satisfied that the repairs were successful. But because 
there was a fault with the alloy wheels which caused repeated punctures, I think Creation 
should refund Mr S any costs he’s incurred in relation to the tyres up until the time when 
repairs were carried out.
In relation to the warning light for the rear seat, Creation said that it would arrange for the 
dealership to resolve this at no cost to Mr S. I think this was a fair offer as resolution for this 
aspect of the complaint.
In relation to the drivetrain fault, I’ve reviewed the information provided by the specialist 
garage. This says that the fault has been caused by poor oil condition and that the cars 
service history doesn’t correlate with the on board service record.
I’ve looked at the service history. This shows that the car was serviced in May 2017 (21,707 
miles), in July 2018 (47,516 miles) and in November 2020 (67,891 miles).
Based on what I’ve seen, the car wasn’t serviced at all in 2019. The specialist garage has 
said that the fault with the drivetrain occurred due to poor oil and lack of servicing. On 
balance, I’m persuaded that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to 
lack of servicing/missed servicing. Mr S has said that the car was sold to him described as 
“fully serviced”. This isn’t supported by the service history I’ve seen.
Putting things right
I’ve explained why I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The 
relevant legislation states, amongst other things, that where a car isn’t of satisfactory quality, 
the business is allowed one opportunity to repair. In this case, the dealer has already had an 
opportunity to repair the alloys. Given the amount of time which has now passed, I don’t 
think its reasonable to expect Mr S to agree to further repairs. Taking everything into 
consideration, I think Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
The drivetrain fault occurred in May 2021 and Mr S hasn’t been able to use the car since 
then. He stopped making payments because of the fault and hired another car. Mr S has 
provided an invoice for car hire for £534.22. Because Mr S hasn’t made any payments since 
May 2021, I’m not asking Creation to refund any monthly payments.
Mr S has said that he cancelled the insurance and tax on the car and has incurred storage 
costs to keep it off the road as he wasn’t able to use it. I’ve thought about whether Creation 
should refund these costs but on balance, I’m not persuaded that it was reasonable for Mr S 
to cancel the insurance and tax. He could’ve mitigated his losses by maintaining the 
insurance and tax and keeping the car parked on the road. So, I won’t be asking Creation to 
refund any storage costs.   
I’ve considered the impact on Mr S. He’s suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. He’s had to return the car to 
the dealership several times and had to arrange for the car to be taken to the specialist 
garage. He’s also been unable to drive the car for a long time and has had to arrange 
alternative transport. I think its fair to ask Creation to pay compensation for this.
Mr S has incurred some other costs in relation to the car which are directly attributable to the 
fault. He paid £220 and £15 for tyre repirs and £355.20 and £610 to the specialist garage. 
He also paid £432 to a third-party garage to get the car from the dealer to the specialist. I 
think Creation should refund these costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr S
Refund the costs incurred by Mr S for tyre repairs being £220 and £15, the costs in relation 
to the specialist garage being £355.20 and £610, and the costs for transportation being £432
Refund £534.22 for car hire costs
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Write off the arrears and amend Mr S’s credit file so that it shows no negative information in 
relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3366257
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the level of service he received from Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited (“Creation”).
What happened
In summary, Mr L spoke to Creation in or around March 2021 regarding his account. He 
complains about the customer service he received on this call. Creation apologised for the 
service given and said they’d pass feedback to the agent. They also offered Mr L £40 
compensation.
Mr L referred his complaint to our service, as he didn’t feel £40 fairly compensated him. Our 
investigator asked Creation to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Mr L accepted this. But since Creation didn’t confirm if they accepted the 
investigator’s recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for broadly similar 
reasons.
Creation haven’t provided us with a copy of the call recording, or their system notes which 
details what was discussed during the phone call in question. But there’s no dispute here 
that the customer service provided to Mr L fell short of what he could rightly expect.
I say this because Creation have already agreed that they could’ve handled the call a lot 
better. They apologised to Mr L for the service he received on the call and the time taken. 
They offered him £40 compensation.
So, the only outstanding matter for me to decide is if Creation have done enough to put 
things right for Mr L. I’ve thought about the impact of the poor customer service on Mr L to 
decide a fair amount of compensation.
Unfortunately, Mr L can’t remember the specific details of the call due to the time that’s 
passed. I don’t think this is unexpected given that the call took place over a year ago. He has 
however explained that he was left feeling stressed, frustrated and inconvenienced.
Mr L has mentioned that this wasn’t an isolated incident and he’s had similar issues with 
Creation in the past. It’s important for me to make it clear that in reviewing this complaint, I 
can only consider the impact of the level of service Mr L received on this specific call in 
question.
That said, I don’t doubt Mr L when he says that he feels simply brushed aside by Creation 
and he didn’t feel listened to – both of which would’ve added to his stress and frustration. 
He’s also told us he’s had to make lengthy phone calls causing him inconvenience.
Creation have had a fair opportunity to reply to us and provide any comments or evidence. In 
the absence of any contrary evidence and taking everything into account, in this particular 
set of circumstances, I think £100 in total is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr L for the 
distress and inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
should pay Mr L £100 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3370978
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms S complains about the quality of a washer/dryer she bought using finance provided by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like 
right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Ms S first complained about the quality of her goods within 30 days of supply. The relevant 
legislation is the Consumer Rights Act (2015) and that says that, in those circumstances, 
she may have had the right to reject the goods and end the finance agreement if there was a 
fault. But I think here that Ms S eventually accepted a repair of the goods instead as one 
was arranged in January 2021.
Ms S says that repair has been unsatisfactory, and the dryer still doesn’t work. Creation 
haven’t supplied any evidence to the contrary and legislation puts the onus on them, in these 
circumstances, to do so. So, I’m persuaded there has been a failed repair on these goods 
and legislation may therefore support a rejection of them now or a price reduction. 
Ms S has now bought a dryer and appears to be using the washer/dryer to wash her clothes 
only. I don’t think a rejection of the goods would therefore be the best solution. That’s 
because Ms S now has a system that is working for her and also because I’d have to 
consider a deduction for the use Ms S has had from the washer/dryer she purchased. 
I think the best solution would be for Creation to provide a price reduction.
Putting things right
The washer/dryer cost £362 and the dryer cost Ms S about £220. I think a price reduction of 
£220 would be reasonable in the circumstances as that accounts for the limited use Ms S 
has had from the washer/dryer and ensures she isn’t out of pocket. Given the issues Ms S 
has had and the fact that it seems unlikely there is as much as £220 left to pay on the 
finance agreement, I’m asking Creation to refund that £220 directly to Ms S rather than 
deducting it from the balance on the account.
They should also pay Ms S £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the extensive delays in responding to her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay Ms S £220 in respect of the issues she’s had with her washer/dryer and to pay  
£100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3385425
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels. She is represented in this complaint by a claims management company 
(“CMC”).
Background
Mrs B bought solar panels for her home in July 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs B into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs B’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs B, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsman’s 
decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs B was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what Creation did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
(Mrs B has also complained that the total cost of the loan repayments was not made clear, 
but I’s satisfied that there is nothing in this point, as the loan agreement is quite clear.)
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs B’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs B from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. I have seen evidence 
that Mrs B has not been receiving feed-in tariff (“FIT”) payments, and so the calculation 
should take that into account (in her favour).
If the calculation shows that Mrs B is paying (or has paid) more than she should have, then 
Creation needs to reimburse her accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
her by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure the loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs B in a position where the solar 
panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs B’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would have paid more each month than she should have done, resulting in 
an overpayment balance. And as she would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let 
Mrs B have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs B and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs B accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept.
If Mrs B has settled the loan, Creation should pay her the difference between what she paid 
in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with interest at 8% 
a year.
If Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and then Creation must: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs B paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs B receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
It must have been upsetting for Mrs B when she realised that, instead of buying panels 
which would pay for themselves, she had in fact unwittingly incurred a significant monthly 
expenditure she hadn’t bargained for. So I direct that Creation must pay her £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3385681
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined an application for credit and 
that it will not tell him the reason for its decision.
What happened
In or around July 2021 Mr S applied for a credit facility to finance the purchase of goods 
costing £520 from a department store which has links with Creation. His application was 
declined. Mr S asked why Creation had reached that decision. It explained that the 
application did not meet its internal lending criteria but would not give any more detail.
Mr S asked this service to look at the matter. One of our investigators did that and noted 
that, whilst Creation was not under a duty to provide a detailed explanation, both the Lending 
Standards Board’s Standards of Lending Practice and the Finance and Leasing 
Association’s Lending Code require its members to disclose the main reason for their 
decisions not to lend. The investigator indicated that Creation should tell Mr S the main 
reason for its lending decision, as the general explanation it had given did not do that.
In response, Creation provided this service (but not Mr S) with more information about its 
lending decision. I therefore reviewed the case afresh and issued a provisional decision.
I noted that, when the investigator issued their preliminary assessment of the complaint, 
Creation had not provided us with any information about the case. Its response to the 
assessment was however to explain the reasons behind the lending decision. Creation had 
provided that information in confidence, as our rules allow. I was satisfied that the 
information was commercially sensitive and should be kept confidential. I was also satisfied 
that Creation’s decision not to provide Mr S with a credit facility had been legitimately made 
in the exercise of its commercial judgment. 
I did not therefore require Creation to disclose to Mr S the reasons for its decision or to take 
any further steps to resolve his complaint. 
Neither Creation nor Mr S had anything more to add in response to my provisional decision.    
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions in response to my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion. 
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further steps to resolve Mr S’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3395211
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr W has complained about a loan Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) 
provided to him to purchase a television. He’s said the finance was unaffordable and that 
Creation didn’t help him once he got into difficulty with his payments.
Background
Creation provided Mr W with a loan for £469 in December 2016. The total amount of 
£505.44, including interest of £36.44 was due to be repaid in 9 instalments of £36.44. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr W’s complaint and she thought that although 
Creation didn’t do anything wrong when initially providing the finance, it failed to demonstrate 
that it exercised forbearance and due consideration once Mr W ran into difficulty with his 
payments. So she thought that Mr W’s complaint should be partially upheld. Creation didn’t 
respond and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
and complaints where borrowers say there weren’t treated fairly when in financial difficulty 
on our website. And I’ve considered all of this information when deciding Mr W’s complaint. 
Having considered everything, I’m partially upholding Mr W’s complaint. I’ll explain why in a 
little more detail.
Creation needed to make sure it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lender’s checks were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s 
reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less thorough – in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it – in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, this was Mr W’s first agreement with Creation. And it’s fair to say Mr W 
was being able to make relatively low monthly payments over short period of time. In these 
circumstances, it could be argued that a more lighter touch check could have been 
proportionate. This is especially as Creation’s enquiries into Mr W’s circumstances 
suggested that he was employed and earning around £3,000.00 a month. That said, I’m also 
mindful that the credit check Creation carried out showed that Mr W had quite significant 
outstanding balances on short term loans.  
So while Mr W may have had a relatively high monthly salary, Mr W’s outstanding balances 
on short-term loans didn’t suggest that the loan payments here were obviously affordable. In 
these circumstances, I think Creation needed to find out more and reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have involved finding out more about Mr W’s expenditure.
However, the information Mr W has provided about his expenditure suggests that the low 
monthly repayments for this agreement were affordable – he still had enough left over to 
make these repayments once his expenditure was deducted from his income. So while 
Creation should have done more to find out about Mr W’s expenditure, I don’t think doing 
this would more likely than not have stopped Creation from lending. As this is the case, I 
don’t think reasonable and proportionate checks would have made a difference here and it 
wasn’t unfair for Creation have agreed to this finance in the first place.
I now turn to what happened from December 2017 onwards. 
It isn’t in dispute that Mr W got into contact with Creation in December 2017 to explain that 
he was struggling with his payments because he was experiencing financial difficulty. And 
once a lender is told that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, 
we’d expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
Creation says it passed Mr W’s December 2017 communication onto its customer support 
team for assistance. But we’ve not been provided with the details of what actions if any the 
customer support team took. Furthermore, it’s clear that Mr W once again got in contact 
asking for a repayment plan in May 2018 and the information provided suggests Mr W was 
told his correspondence had been passed on to the relevant department for response. 
Despite many requests for this information, Creation has also failed to provide this to us.
Given that there is clear evidence of more than one request for assistance from Mr W and 
Creation hasn’t provided me with anything to demonstrate that it responded to these 
requests, in line with its CONC 7 obligations, I’m inclined to say that it didn’t act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr W in relation to this matter. It hasn’t provided anything at all to 
demonstrate it gained an understanding of Mr W’s circumstances and assessed an 
appropriate way to move forward. As this is the case, I’m upholding this part of Mr W’s 
complaint.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Creation should put things right by reworking Mr W’s account so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from December 2017 are removed. If the effect of removing these 
interest, fees and charges results in Mr W having paid Creation more than he needed to then 
any extra Mr W paid should be treated as overpayments and returned to him along with 8% 
simple interest† on the overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement. 
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
I know that Mr W wanted all adverse information removed from his credit file. But as 
Creation didn’t unfairly enter into this agreement with him in the first place and providing 
assistance would always have been reflected in any information Creation reported to credit 
reference agencies, I’m satisfied that it isn’t unfair or unreasonable for any adverse 
information Creation recorded on Mr W’s credit file to remain there.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m partially upholding Mr W’s complaint. Creation Financial 
Services Limited should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3397306
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty car 
which had been misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulator’s rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
“the quality of the goods is satisfactory”.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle’s history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Creation have not fully engaged with this service in our dealing with this complaint and so I 
have to rely on evidence provided by Mr S including the independent report commissioned 
by Creation.
Firstly, I consider there has been a misrepresentation by the dealer. A misrepresentation is 
when a false statement of fact has been made and that false statement of fact induced a 
consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a misrepresentation has 
occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been made and it needs to 
be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter into the agreement.
The car was described as having a full Ford service history when this was not accurate. I am 
satisfied this was an important matter for Mr S and that this influenced his decision to go 
through with the deal.
The car has a number of faults and the independent report states: “..Based on the evidence 
which was available to ourselves at the time of inspection we do consider that the faults 
would have been present or in development at the point finance inception and subsequently 
it is the selling agents responsibility in our opinion..”
Our investigator has set out the report’s findings in more detail, but it is clear that the car was 
fault at the point of sale. Mr S identified the faults within a few weeks and although some 
repairs were carried out these were far from complete.
In summary Mr S acquired a car which had been misrepresented to him and was faulty at 
the point of sale so rejection is both fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Mr S should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay,

collect the car at no further cost to Mr S,

refund the deposit of £2,000,

refund all repayments to the date of settlement as the customer reasonably stopped 
using the car within five days,

pay Mr S compensation of £400 for the inconvenience and additional expenses as 
set out by our investigator,

pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement,

remove any adverse information from Mr S‘ credit file in relation to the agreement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from the interest. Creation must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3401600
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss J complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these reasons:

Before lending to Miss J, Creation were obligated to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks so that they could determine whether the repayments for her 
£13,000 loan would be sustainable for her. Creation hasn’t provided us with Miss J’s 
application, nor have they provided much information to demonstrate why they 
considered the information Miss J gave them met their affordability criteria. So, I’ve 
had to base my decision on limited information.

Creation has said Miss J’s loan was taken out in September 2017, and she told them 
she was working part-time – with a net annual income of just over £13,000. Given the 
amount of borrowing was similar to Miss J’s annual income, I would have expected 
Creation to carry out a detailed assessment of her financial situation before deciding 
to approve her loan. That’s because she was borrowing a large amount (in 
comparison with her income), and this borrowing came with an APR of 23.90%. But 
from the evidence I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that’s what happened.

Creation has said they were aware that at the time of application, Miss J was paying 
£413 towards unsecured loan repayments and had a £5,620 revolving balance – 
before the repayments for this loan of just over £350 per month. This information 
alone should have prompted Creation to ask further questions about Miss J’s 
financial situation – particularly given this loan was taken out to consolidate her 
debts. Had Creation done this, they would have seen Miss J would be left with a 
disposable income of around £200 per month, after her regular payments debited her 
account. I don’t consider a reasonable business could fairly say this level of 
disposable income equated to the repayments of this £13,000 loan being sustainable 
for Miss J’s circumstances. 

Miss J has struggled to meet repayments for her loan; and turned to further 
borrowing to meet her financial commitments. I appreciate Creation weren’t expected 
to predict the future. However, had they carried out sufficient checks, the situation 
Miss J found herself in would have been foreseeable. In turn, they would have been 
able to decline her application – and that would have been the reasonable thing to do 
in the circumstances.
It's for these reasons I consider Creation lent to Miss J irresponsibly, and they need to do 
something to put things right.
Putting things right
As Miss J has had the benefit of the capital sum, she should repay this. But to put things 
right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Remove all interest and charges applied to the loan.

Treat any payments made by Miss J as payments towards the capital amount of 
£13,000.

If Miss J has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.

But if there’s an outstanding balance, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should come 
to a reasonable repayment plan with Miss J.

If there is any adverse information about the loan on Miss J’s credit file, this should 
be removed.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to deduct tax from this 
interest, it should give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax is deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss J’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
To resolve this complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should provide the remedy set 
out in the “Putting things right” section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3404262
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement 
with Creation.
When Mr S took delivery of the car, there was no car manual or service history. Mr S 
contacted the dealer several times to request the service history. The dealer said it was in 
the car. Unable to resolve things with the dealer, Mr S contacted Creation and raised a claim 
under section 75.
In response, Creation said it had contacted the broker, who had advised that if there was no 
physical service history, there would be a digital copy contained on the key. Based on what 
the broker said, creation rejected Mr S’s section 75 claim.
Mr S has had the key checked and found only two services. He’s unhappy because the car 
was advertised for sale with full service history. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He thinks he’s paid too much for the car given 
that it doesn’t have a full service history. He wants compensation.
Our investigator contacted Creation to request a case file, but Creation didn’t respond. So 
the investigator reached a view based on the available information. The investigator said that 
the car didn’t have a full service history and that 5 services had been missed. The 
investigator said that the car had been mis-sold and that Creation should pay compensation 
to Mr S equivalent to the value of 5 missed services, plus compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
Creation didn’t respond to the view, so I’ve been asked to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr S’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that Creations response to the claim wasn’t fair or 
reasonable.
Mr S has said that the car was advertised as having a full service history. He’s provided the 
advertisement to show this. Mr S has also provided a copy of the digital read pout from the 
key. There are two services recorded, September 2015 and September 2017. This is the 
only evidence of the service history, because no service history book was provided with the 
car.
The manufacturer recommended service interval for the car is every 10,000 miles or every 
12 months, whichever is the sooner. Based on what I’ve seen, Mr S’s car has missed 
services in 2014,2016,2018. 2019 and 2020.
Mr S has said that if he’d known that car didn’t have full service history, he wouldn’t have 
gone ahead with the purchase.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter into 
the contract. In this case, I’m satisfied that the service history was misrepresented, and that 
the service history was a main factor in Mr S’s decision to purchase the car. I’m satisfied that 
the criteria for section 75 have been met. I don’t think Creations response to the claim was 
reasonable.
Putting things right
Mr S has said that he’s happy to keep the car, but he thinks he’s paid to much for it given 
that it doesn’t have full service history. I agree that its likely that the car was advertised for a 
price which reflected the fact that it had a full service history, and that the absence of a 
service history makes it likely to have been worth less. I’m of the view that Creation should 
pay compensation to Mr S for the 5 missed services at £250 per service, plus interest 
equivalent to the interest being charged under the loan agreement. Creation should also pay 
compensation to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused to him as a result of being 
mis-sold the car and having to pursue a complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Pay Mr S £1250 for missed services
Pay interest at 10.9% on the above sum for 54 months
Pay £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3408120
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the response of Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation), following 
her complaints made against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“CCA”).
What happened
Mrs P complains that she tried to claim under Section 75 (s75) for problems with her solar 
panel system but had not received a response from Creation. She said her solar panel 
inverter was faulty, and delays in repairing it had caused her a financial loss. She said she 
was told the wrong inverter had been installed in the first place. 
As she was unhappy with the response she got from Creation, she brought her complaint to 
this service. Mrs P explained to the investigator that the inverter had broken down twice, it 
had been replaced once by the installer, and once by Creation. She had been told by the 
electrician from Creation that the wrong inverter had been installed. She said this had cost 
her money, and she felt the whole system had been mis-represented to her as the panels 
were not generating what she had been promised when she bought the panels. 
The investigator wrote to Creation asking them to address all of Mrs P’s points. 
As Creation did not respond to either this service or Mrs P, the investigator reviewed the 
case and issued her findings. She said she thought the installer had misrepresented the 
benefits of the solar panel system to Mrs P, and the paperwork she had didn’t make it clear 
that the panels would not be self-funding. To resolve this, she recommended that Creation 
calculate the actual and potential income and savings to Mrs P from her panels over 10 
years and ensure Mrs P paid no more than that on her loan. She also recommended that 
Creation pay the £60 cost of the electrician and a further £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Mrs P accepted the view. However, Creation did not respond. As such the case was passed 
for decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes Section 56 (“s56”) and s75 of the CCA. S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
“If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor.”
As Mrs P paid for the solar panel system with a fixed sum loan, s75 applies to this 
transaction. This means that Mrs P could claim against Creation – the creditor – for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way that she could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, I’ve taken s75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
S56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs P and the 
installer, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by them as an agent for 
Creation. 
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities – 
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
  
Mrs P has said that during the sales meeting she was told that her monthly loan repayments 
would be met by the financial benefits she’d receive from the solar panel system. And this 
hasn’t happened. From what I can see Mrs P had no reason to have agreed to the 
installation of the panels, paid for by a loan, which would increase her monthly outgoings. 
Based on this, I think it’s unlikely that she would’ve agreed to the solar panel system and the 
loan with Creation, unless she had been led to believe that her monthly loan repayments 
would be covered by the financial benefits she’d receive meaning the solar panels would 
come at no additional financial cost to her.
I’ve also considered the paperwork that Mrs P has supplied. Like the investigator I think in 
order for Mrs P to have a clear idea of the actual costs and likely benefits, she would need to 
be able to compare her actual outgoings with her estimated incomings.  
From the evidence I have, I’m not persuaded that Mrs P had this opportunity. The order is 
dated 1 November 2013, and sets out the cost of the panels, but doesn’t include any 
mention of the loan, the cost of the interest, and nothing on the likely benefits from the 
panels. There are some details of the benefits on the Customer Satisfaction Note, but this is 
dated over a month later, and after the installation had taken place. So, I don’t think this 
would have informed Mrs P’s decision. 
I’m satisfied that Creation has been given sufficient opportunity to provide its own evidence 
in respect of Mrs P’s complaint about the misrepresentation of her panels.  As it has not 
responded, I can only base my decision on the evidence I have and therefore, I accept Mrs 
P’s version of events.
I’ve also considered the issue of Mrs P’s inverter. The only information we received from 
Creation on this point was that the matter had been resolved, but Mrs P said that was not the 
case. Mrs P has said due to the problems with the inverter, she has lost out on the benefits 
of her panels and incurred a cost of £60 getting her own electrician to remove the inverter.   
Creation have not responded on this issue to either this service or Mrs P or provided any 
evidence to dispute Mrs P’s version of events. 
The Consumer Rights Act says that a consumer can expect a service (such as installation of 
solar panels and associated items) to be carried out with reasonable care and skill. I think it 
is reasonable to expect the panels and the associated purchases are installed correctly and 
safely. So, if in this case the installation wasn’t carried out correctly, the installer/supplier or 
Creation would be responsible for repairs or replacement of damaged items.   
On the evidence and arguments presented, I can only conclude that Mrs P has suffered a 
financial loss due to the issues with the inverter and it falls to Creation to remedy that loss. 
Putting things right
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances.
My view of Mrs P’s complaint is that it’s less about the solar panels and more that she hasn’t 
seen the benefits she was led to expect. Because of this I don’t think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from her home. Rather, by adjusting 
the loan to ensure she pays no more than the actual and likely benefits over a 10-year 
period, the financial impact of the misrepresentations is removed. If the calculations are 
done using Mrs P’s actual bills and fit statements, this would also ensure that she does not 
lose out for the periods she had problems with the inverter. 
By ensuring that Mrs P’s monthly loan repayments are no more than the benefits she would 
have received from the solar panel system, it is likely that she would have overpaid each 
month. And as Mrs P would have been deprived of this monthly overpayment, I would expect 
Creation to add 8% simple interest from the date the overpayment was made until the date 
of the settlement.
I also think it’s fair for Creation to cover the cost of the electrician Mrs P called to try and 
repair her inverter.   
I also think that the way Creation has dealt with Mrs P will have caused her trouble and 
upset. In recognition of this, I think Creation should pay Mrs P £200.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Mrs P’s complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, I 
require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

allow Mrs P to keep the solar panels,

estimate the potential savings and income to Mrs P from the panels over a 10-year 
period and rework it so she pays no more than this. Where possible, it should use 
Mrs P’s electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.

add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to the date of settlement,

Reimburse Mrs P the cost of the electrician 

pay Mrs P £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one so she can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3410757
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to notify her regarding the 
repayment date of her buy now pay later (BNPL) loan.
What happened
In early 202 Ms C had some windows installed in her home by a company I will call G. She 
entered into a BNPL loan agreement with Creation. She has told this service that she didn’t 
receive a copy of the loan agreement as it was taken away by G. She says that the 
installation team told her that £120 a month would be collected and the balance would be 
paid at the end of 12 months. The cost of the windows was £7,800 and this was met with a 
deposit of £1,800 and the balance with the BNPL loan. It was interest free if paid within 12 
months, but if not the total sum payable would be £17,514
G ceased trading and Ms C was unable to contact it having noticed that no payments were 
going out of her account. Creation says it sent her two letters, one on 20 July 2020 and the 
other on 15 December 2020. Ms C says these were not received. She has shown this 
service details of her savings which show she had saved £6,000 to pay off the loan in 
February 2020.
Ms C did some digging once the first payment was taken in February 2021. She identified 
Creation as the lender and she wanted to pay off the loan, but she was told the date by 
which this could happen interest free had passed and so she brought her complaint to this 
service.
Creation didn’t respond to our enquiries and our investigator concluded that the complaint 
should be upheld. Creation has since submitted a limited response.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that it was Ms C’s intention to pay off the loan without incurring interest. She 
had saved up £6,000 to cover the debt and was able to make payment in time to avoid an 
interest charge. She had no need of the almost 10 years available to her to pay off the loan 
so it is clear what she had planned.
What I now have to consider is why she failed to make the payment. I am satisfied that she 
did not have a copy of the loan agreement. She has submitted a comprehensive package of 
paperwork given to her by G and none of this makes any reference to the finance 
agreement. It is quite plausible that G retained the loan documentation and as it ceased 
trading Ms C was unable to obtain a copy. Without that she was unable to identify the lender.
I have noted that Creation says it issued two letters. I am also aware that at that time life was 
disrupted due to Covid rules and I believe it is possible that these were either not sent out or 
were not delivered. I consider Ms C’s testimony to be both genuine and credible and I can 
accept that she did not receive these. It is clear she wished to clear the debt and I believe 
she would have acted on them if had received them. I am also aware that subsequent to the 
passing of the deadline that Creation has been in contact with Ms C by email and it is not 
clear why this medium wasn’t used to remind her of the date payment was due
Overall, I believe that events have conspired against Ms C and that the lack of a copy of the 
loan agreement is key to her not meeting the payment deadline. It was G’s responsibility 
acting on behalf of Creation to ensure she had a copy and so I believe I should uphold this 
complaint.
I think it only fair and reasonable that Ms C should be allowed to pay the debt of £6,000 
without incurring interest charges.
Putting things right
Ms C should be allowed to pay off the loan interest free.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to allow Ms C to satisfy the loan by payment of £6,000 to be made within four weeks of the 
date she accepts this decision. It should also pay her £100 compensation for the trouble and 
upset she has been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3411218
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms W has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim against it
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Ms W bought solar panels for her home in January 2016. The purchase was funded by a
loan from Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Ms
W into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Ms W’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits
of the panels were mis-represented to the consumer, and that fair redress would be for the
loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be
based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions
on future performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2022, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. But I explained I intended to direct Creation to do something different to the 
view provided by our adjudicator. In that decision I said:
“Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, it’s my intention to uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Ms W was not given clear
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate
to an additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Ms W fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did
wrong. And this means that it should put things right. But what I think it should do differs
slightly from the recommendation made by our investigator.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Ms W.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Ms W’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Ms W from the solar
panels over the 10-year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
And this calculation should also factor in the fact Ms W had been unable register for FIT
payments. Because of this, I think Ms W has lost out even more financially, as they didn’t
receive this income. So, Creation should ensure this financial loss is covered as part of their
calculations.
I understand Creation may say it wasn’t their fault that Ms W was unable to register for FIT
payments. But I don’t think this matters in this situation. As I’m satisfied the
misrepresentation by Creation included Ms W into entering in the contract, our service is
able to direct a complete unwinding of the contract. So, the fact no FIT payments have been
considered should be taken into consideration.
If the event the calculation shows that Ms W is paying (or has paid) more than she should
have Creation need to reimburse Ms W accordingly. Should the calculation show that the
mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with
Ms W by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to
restructure Ms W’s loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Ms W in a position where
the solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms W’s monthly repayments would reduce,
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms W
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms W
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms W
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Ms W and she continues to make her current
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms W and she pays a new monthly payment until
the end of the loan term.
If Ms W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she
wishes to accept.
If the Ms W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Ms W the difference between what she
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8%
interest.
If Ms W has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to
Creation and Creation should:
1. Refund the extra Ms W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms W receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Ms W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms W receives her refund.
5. Pay Ms W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms W first
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.”
Neither Ms W or Creation provided any further comments or additional information in relation 
to my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial decision. My decision remains the 
same that I think a misrepresentation took place and Ms W was not given clear
information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate
to an additional cost for her.
Putting things right
I think Creation should put things right in the way I set out in my provisional decision. For 
clarity, I’ve included this wording again.
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Ms W’s complaint for 
Creation to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Ms W from the solar panels over the 10 year term of the 
loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar panel system, and any future 
benefits once the loan has ended.
And this calculation should also factor in the fact Ms W had been unable register for FIT
payments. Because of this, I think Ms W has lost out even more financially, as they didn’t
receive this income. So, Creation should ensure this financial loss is covered as part of their
calculations.
I understand Creation may say it wasn’t their fault that Ms W was unable to register for FIT
payments. But I don’t think this matter’s in this situation. As I’m satisfied the
misrepresentation by Creation included Ms W into entering in the contract, our service is
able to direct a complete unwinding of the contract. So, the fact no FIT payments have been
considered should be taken into consideration.
If the event the calculation shows that Ms W is paying (or has paid) more than she should
have Creation need to reimburse Ms W accordingly. Should the calculation show that the
mis-presentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with
Ms W by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to
restructure Ms W’s loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Ms W in a position where
the solar panel system is cost neutral over the term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms W’s monthly repayments would reduce,
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Ms W
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms W
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and Ms W
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Ms W and she continues to make her current
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Ms W and she pays a new monthly payment until
the end of the loan term.
If Ms W accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she
wishes to accept.
If the Ms W has settled the loan, Creation should pay Ms W the difference between what she
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8%
interest.
If Ms W has settled the loan by refinancing, she should supply evidence of the refinance, to
Creation and Creation should:
1. Refund the extra Ms W paid each month with the Creation loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms W receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Ms W paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Ms W receives her refund.
5. Pay Ms W the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding.
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Ms W first
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms W’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3418688
--------------------------

Complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd loaded a Cifas marker against her 
name.
Background
In January 2018, Mrs K purchased a new phone on credit provided by Creation. The 
agreement had an interest free period for the first six months. This meant that, so long as 
she paid the loan off before July 2018, it wouldn’t attract any interest.
Shortly after the agreement was set up, Creation received two payments from a Mr K. These 
payments settled the outstanding debt in full. However, Mrs K said she wasn’t aware of 
those payments and had never held an account with the bank responsible for sending them 
to Creation.  
In February 2018, she called Creation to enquire about settling the agreement but was told it 
had already been settled. She assumed that a single payment had been collected directly 
from her account. Two weeks later, two chargebacks were raised against Creation in 
connection with those two payments that had settled the agreement. Creation wrote to Mrs K 
to let her know and she promptly settled the outstanding debt in full.
Creation loaded a Cifas marker against Mrs K’s name. Mrs K was unhappy about this and so 
she referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. 
The Investigator set out that Creation could only justifiably load a Cifas marker against a 
customer if its decision to do so was supported by evidence sufficient to meet the burden of 
proof described in the National Fraud Database Handbook. She said that it was insufficient 
for Creation to merely suspect fraud. It would need strong enough evidence to allow it to 
report its customer to the police.  She noted that Creation hadn’t provided any evidence of 
the chargeback or contact from the bank that raised it. Overall, she didn’t think there was 
enough evidence to support the Cifas loading. She recommended Creation remove it and 
pay £250 to Mrs K to reflect the distress that had been caused.
The Investigator issued her view of the complaint on 22 March 2022. Creation did not 
respond. She contacted Creation again on 6 April to let it know that the complaint would be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. That email had a deadline of 20 April, but no 
response was received.  Because Creation hasn’t responded to the Investigator’s view or 
any follow up correspondence, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a 
final decision.
Findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide – at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook – that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may: 
…reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that: 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
I’ve therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Creation, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
its failure to reply to the Investigator’s opinion. I’ve considered whether the evidence looked 
at by Creation met the necessary standard of proof to justify loading a Cifas marker. From 
what I’ve seen, it has fallen some way short of that requirement and its decision to load the 
marker wasn’t justified. 
The Investigator also recommended Creation pay £250 to Mrs K in recognition of the 
distress it caused her. I think that was a fair sum at the time the Investigator issued her view, 
but I’m mindful of the fact that around two months have elapsed since then. In the 
circumstances, I think £300 would be a fairer reflection of the distress that the marker has 
caused to her. 
Final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Remove the Cifas marker without delay

Pay £300 to Mrs K to take account of the distress that its decision to load the marker 
has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3420218
--------------------------

Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs S bought solar panels for her home in 2011. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs S’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Creation didn’t respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs S fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs S’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs S from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs S is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs S’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs S’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs S 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs S and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs S and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs S accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
I understand Mrs S may have already paid off her loan. If Mrs S has settled the loan, 
Creation should pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid in total and what the loan 
should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs S should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs S paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs S receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs S paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs S receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs S first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs S’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3425409
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a mattress she bought using finance provided by 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs S, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974). This says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
I can understand Mrs S’s disappointment and frustration as she’s clearly unhappy with the 
mattress she bought. She’s explained that the sales agent told her it was medium firm, but 
she has found it very soft and uncomfortable. 
But for me to decide Creation have been unreasonable when rejecting Mrs S’s section 75 
claim I would need to have evidence that the mattress is either not what was promised or is 
not of adequate quality and I’m afraid I don’t think Mrs S has been able to provide that.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) gives consumers the right to a repair or replacement when 
goods are supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. But the Act says there’s an exception 
when the defect should have been obvious during the consumer pre-sale inspection. Here 
Mrs S has explained that she didn’t lie on the mattress, but she did press it with her hand. I 
think it’s reasonable to expect a consumer to try a mattress before buying it and I think it 
should therefore have been obvious to Mrs S before she made the purchase that the bed 
wasn’t firm enough for her. So, I don’t think there’s sufficient evidence that the bed was of 
unsatisfactory quality and that the contract had therefore been breached.
If Mrs S was told something that was false and if she wouldn’t have gone ahead with the 
purchase if she hadn’t been told that, then I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to her and I’d then ask Creation to take some action. Unfortunately, I’ve not 
been provided with a copy of the advert or any product data to compare the product against 
and whilst Mrs S says she was told the product was firmer the business dispute that. I don’t 
therefore think I have enough information to suggest the product was misrepresented to 
Mrs S. Overall, I won’t be asking Creation to take any further action as I don’t think they’ve 
been unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3426905
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms B complains about a payment she made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
that didn’t credit her account. 
What happened
In September 2018 Ms B says she sent a cheque to Creation to settle her loan account. 
Since making the payment, Ms B says she’s been chased by Creation and a debt collection 
agency and her account has been defaulted. Ms B says this has caused her distress and 
meant she missed out on lowering the rate of her mortgage, as adverse data was recorded 
on her credit record. So, Ms B logged a complaint with Creation.
Creation looked into the complaint but didn’t uphold it. Creation said the money was paid to 
someone else’s account, as the reference number on the cheque was wrong. It was then 
refunded two months later. 
After some investigation by Ms B, she says she located the money in her son’s student 
account. Ms B says the cheque she sent had been paid to an old credit account her son had 
with Creation. It was then refunded to a bank account he hadn’t used for some years. Ms B 
said the money was paid back to her from her son and she then settled the Creation account 
in 2020. 
As Ms B remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked in the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Our investigator 
asked Creation for information several times but with no response. He eventually issued a 
view based on the information Ms B had provided. Our investigator found there were 
sufficient details on the cheque to get it to the right account. Our investigator found Creation 
should pay Ms B compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. This totalled £750.  
Creation responded to the view but only provided the final response letter, which we already 
had on file. So, the complaint’s been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve come to the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I’ll explain why. 
There’s no dispute that the cheque was paid to the wrong account, Creation have confirmed 
this in its final response letter (FRL) to Ms B. Having seen a copy of the cheque, I’m satisfied 
on balance that there is enough information to get it to the right account, even if the 
reference number given may have been incorrect. Ms B’s name was clearly listed on both 
sides of the cheque with her address. If there was any conflicting information between the 
reference number and the name and address on the cheque, I‘m satisfied Ms B should’ve 
been contacted or it should’ve been sent back to her rather than credited to the wrong 
account. 
It's worth noting that when the cheque was credited to Ms B’s sons account in error, Ms B 
has told our service that there was no outstanding balance. Ms B however did have the 
exact outstanding balance of the amount the queue was made out for. So again, a check on 
the balance would’ve directed Creation to the correct account.  
When Creation located the money and found it had been paid to the wrong account, it then 
credited it back to another incorrect bank account, Ms B’s sons. Although I’ve not seen any 
evidence of the money going to this account, based on the fact Ms B originally issued a 
cheque to pay her balance, I can see no reason why if the money had gone back to her, that 
she wouldn’t of paid the account again straight away. Ms B also says she was told a number 
of times that the money had been sent to her, which we now know to be incorrect. 
It’s clear it took some time for Ms B’s son to locate the missing funds, but if the account 
hadn’t been used as Ms B has suggested, then this is completely understandable. I also 
don’t find it fair that Ms B was expected to pay the account whilst the funds were still 
missing. This would’ve resulted in the amount debited Ms B’s account twice. 
It’s clear from the information I’ve seen from Ms B that this has been a very stressful 
situation. I’ve seen evidence of the letters the debt collecting agency have sent her and this 
has been over a long period of time. So, I’m satisfied Ms B should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset this caused. 
I’ve also seen a letter from a mortgage broker suggesting the lenders it deals with wouldn’t 
look at an application for a lower mortgage rate whilst the adverse data from the missed 
payments were on Ms B’s credit file. The investigator has correctly pointed out there was no 
guarantees that a lower rate could’ve been achieved as lots of other factors would’ve 
needed to be considered and I agree with this - but Ms B has clearly lost out on the 
opportunity to find out. In these circumstances I’m satisfied she should also be compensated 
for the loss of opportunity in being able to apply for an alternative mortgage rate. 
I’m summary and having considered all of the information from both parties, I find Creation 
did credit the incorrect account with Ms B’s payment and had enough information to prevent 
that happening. Creation then sent the money back to another incorrect account and Ms B 
went through a lot of stress and inconvenience to fix the situation.  
Putting things right
Having considered all of the information from both parties, I’m satisfied that Creation should 
pay the £750 compensation suggestion by the investigation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. 
Although Ms B has said Creation had agreed to delete any adverse data from Ms B’s credit 
file, due to the lack of information from Creation, I’m unsure if this has been completed. If it 
hasn’t, Creation should do this on receipt of this decision.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to pay Ms B £750 compensation. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also remove any adverse data from Ms B’s credit 
record if it hasn’t done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3429787
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr F bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr F into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Creation made an offer of settlement. This was that the loan be restructured to make the 
panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-year period. Mr F has 
indicated that he accepts this offer. But Creation has to date not paid it. So, I’m making a 
decision to confirm what Creation must do to put things right. This decision will be legally 
binding on both Creation and Mr F if he accepts it within the given deadline. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Creation has accepted that the complaint should be upheld. So, I don’t need to decide 
whether there was a misrepresentation, only what must happen to put things right.
Putting things right
Creation should put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr F from the solar panels over a ten-year period so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended. 
Because the calculation shows that Mr F is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, 
then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. 
Because the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require 
Creation to restructure Mr F’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr F in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr F have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr F and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr F accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr F has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr F has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mr F paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr F paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr F receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr F the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Creation should also pay Mr F £100 compensation, in line with the offer it previously made.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mr F’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3437826
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t refund her the credit remaining 
on her account after she took out a personal loan. 
What happened
Mrs B took out a personal loan with Creation. While paying back the loan she unfortunately 
entered financial difficulty and entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). Mrs 
B’s IVA was completed.
Following completion of the IVA, Mrs B contacted Creation to see if she was sold any PPI 
with her loan. She was initially told she was, then she was told this was an error and in truth 
she wasn’t sold PPI with this loan. But she was told her account was in credit. Creation said 
the credit may be because payments may have been paid into the account by third parties 
while Mrs B was in her IVA.
Mrs B asked for the £1,630.99 credit to be returned to her. But she’s said Creation hasn’t 
responded to her or paid her the credit on the account. She complained to Creation but 
received no response. So, she brought our complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into this complaint. Despite asking for information, Creation never 
sent us any. On that basis, our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended Creation pay Mrs B the credit on the account.
Creation didn’t respond to our investigator’s assessment, so the case has come to me to 
issue a final decision on.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There isn’t a lot of information to go on here. We’ve only got Mrs B’s evidence. We’ve asked 
Creation for their arguments and evidence on this case, but we’ve not received anything.
Mrs B has provided us an email from Creation which says it’s located her account and says 
it is in credit by £1,630.99. It says this might have been paid by third parties so needs to find 
out who paid the money into the account before it can give Mrs B that credit. But Mrs B has 
said since that email she’s not heard from Creation despite trying to work with it to get the 
refund of that credit.
On the evidence available it looks like:

Mrs B does have an account with Creation

That account is in credit of £1,630.99
As explained, Creation has been given the opportunity to explain why it doesn’t think the 
credit should be given to Mrs B, but it’s not provided any. Without further evidence or 
explanation, I don’t think it’s reasonable that Creation keeps the account in credit and 
doesn’t return it to Mrs B.
This was also the view of our investigator and creation has had the opportunity to let us 
know why it disagrees and provide further evidence to support its position. But it’s not sent 
us anything.
So, based on the information available, I require Creation to pay Mrs B the credit on the 
account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:

Pay Mrs B £1,630.99 which represents the credit on the account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3438377
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd made payment to a supplier before the 
work had been completed to his satisfaction.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr D placed an order for new windows and doors with a supplier and 
entered into a finance agreement with Creation. The cash price of the windows was £9,127. 
Mr D paid a deposit of £2000 and the balance was financed.
Installation was due to start in May 2021, but this was delayed. Mr D is unhappy because 
following installation, some of the windows don’t fit properly and can’t be opened/closed. 
Some of the windows are damaged and there are several other snagging issues.
Mr D raised these issues with the supplier. An inspection was caried out and the supplier 
agreed to fix the issues and complete the snagging works. However, this hasn’t happened.
Mr D was unhappy when he found out that Creation had paid the supplier for the work 
despite the ongoing issues. He complained to Creation but wasn’t provided with a final 
response within the relevant timescale, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that Mr D had a like claim against Creation under section 75 if there 
had been a breach of contract.  The investigator said she was satisfied that there had been a  
breach of contract because the goods weren’t of satisfactory quality and hadn’t been fitted 
with reasonable care and skill. The investigator said that Creation should cancel the 
agreement and refund Mr D the deposit plus any payments made.
Creation responded and said it had spoken to the supplier, who has stated that it could 
complete the work and was willing to do so.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr D’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation. Mr D hasn’t said that there’s been a  misrepresentation 
so I’ve focussed on whether there’s been a  breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. It also says that services must be supplied with reasonable skill and care. If 
this isn’t the case then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
I’ve looked at the available evidence including the photos provided by Mr D. I’ve taken into 
account Mr D’s testimony. Neither Creation nor the supplier provided any evidence for this 
service to consider.
During the course of the investigation by this service, the supplier contacted Mr D and said it 
would attend his property to rectify the issues on 23 March 2022. Mr D has said that he 
waited at home all day but no-one attended. Since then, Mr D has tried to contact the 
supplier but has had no reply. 
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract. I say this 
because, looking at the photos,  the windows and doors don’t appear to be of satisfactory 
quality and the work doesn’t appear to have been carried out with reasonable care and skill.
I’m also of the view that the supplier has been given a reasonable opportunity to rectify the 
issues and has failed to do so. 
In the circumstances, Creation is responsible under section 75 for putting things right.
Putting things right
The relationship between Mr D and the supplier has broken down and I think the supplier 
has already had a reasonable opportunity to put things right but has failed to do so. Creation 
should cancel the agreement and refund the deposit together with all payments made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Cancel the agreement
Refund the deposit
Refund any payments made under the agreement
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Assist Mr D to make contact with the supplier to reject the windows and doors
Remove the agreement from Mr D’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3439108
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), trading as Creation, 
irresponsibly granted her a fixed sum loan agreement she couldn’t afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2018, entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in order to acquire 
some furniture goods. Under the terms of the agreement. After making the first repayment, 
Miss M was required to make 35 monthly repayments of £29.11. The total repayable under 
the agreement was £1,047.96.
Miss M says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasn’t affordable. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it 
carried out an assessment to check Miss M’s financial circumstances and she passed its 
internal lending criteria.
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss M didn’t agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation didn’t ask Miss M for her details of her income prior to agreeing the lending – 
instead it relied on its own calculations. Without an understanding of what Miss M was 
earning, I don’t think it was possible for Creation to make a fair assessment of her ability to 
afford the repayments without undue difficulty. It therefore didn’t complete proportionate 
checks. 
Creation also didn’t ask Miss M about her expenditure. Although it did complete a credit 
check, this won’t have indicated what Miss M’s regular living expenses were. Without 
knowing what Ms M’s regular committed expenditure was, Creation wouldn’t have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didn’t 
complete proportionate checks. 
I’ve considered what Creation would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. We’ve asked Miss M to provide us with evidence of her 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. Whilst she gave us some 
information about her estimated regular committed expenditure at the time, this wasn’t 
enough to fairly determine what proportionate checks would likely have shown Creation. I 
see our adjudicator gave Miss M a further opportunity to provide us with the further evidence 
and information we need about her financial circumstances but, for whatever reason, she 
hasn’t done so. 
As Miss M hasn’t been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I can’t 
reasonably conclude that Creation ought to have known she would struggle to make the 
repayments. I’m therefore not persuaded that Creation acted unfairly in approving the 
finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3446141
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains about Creation Consumer Finance Limited’s response to his complaint 
about the issues that he had with e-signing a credit agreement.
What happened
Mr M wanted to use a credit agreement with Creation Consumer Finance to pay for a 
television that he was buying in October 2021. There was an issue which meant that he 
couldn’t sign the agreement using its e-sign facility so he asked for the agreement to be e-
mailed to him but that didn’t happen. He complained to Creation Consumer Finance, 
cancelled his order and bought a television from another retailer.
Creation Consumer Finance upheld his complaint about the issues with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It apologised and agreed to remove 
the search that it had made from Mr M’s credit file. Mr M wasn’t satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that his complaint should be upheld. Although she hadn’t 
received any information from Creation Consumer Finance, it had apologised to Mr M for its 
service and she thought that that was sufficient and she didn’t think that it needed to pay any 
financial redress.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that there’s 
no logic in his complaint being resolved in Creation Consumer Finance’s favour if it hasn’t 
co-operated with the investigation and that the wrong information it gave him, its bad service 
and having to go through another credit application with another retailer justifies 
compensation. He also says that the investigator hasn’t seen proof to confirm that the search 
has been removed from his credit file so she can’t guarantee that the search has been 
removed.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t provided any information to this service but I have seen a 
copy of the final response letter that it sent to Mr M. This service expects financial 
businesses to respond to requests for information and I don’t consider it to be acceptable 
that Creation Consumer Finance hasn’t responded to our investigator’s requests for 
information about Mr M’s complaint. But it’s failure to respond to those requests doesn’t 
mean that his complaint should be upheld.
Mr M had applied to Creation Consumer Finance for credit to pay for a television. It says that 
his application was accepted but he experienced issues using e-sign and that, if a customer 
can’t e-sign the agreement, it’s its process for a paper copy of the agreement to be sent for 
signing. I can understand Mr M’s frustration about his dealings with Creation Consumer 
Finance and he’s described the inconvenience that he was caused.
Creation Consumer Finance apologised to Mr M for the issues that he had with e-signing the 
agreement and not being able to speak to a manager. It also agreed to remove the search 
that it had made from his credit file. I consider that to have been a fair and reasonable 
response to Mr M’s complaint. I consider that the customer service that Mr M has received 
wasn’t of the standard that he was reasonably entitled to expect but, other than that, I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that Creation Consumer Finance has acted 
incorrectly. Mr M clearly feels that he should receive compensation from Creation Consumer 
Finance for the inconvenience that he was caused but I’m not persuaded that any 
compensation is justified in these circumstances. 
Creation Consumer Finance said that it would ensure that the hard search was removed 
from Mr M’s credit file. Mr M hasn’t provided any evidence to show that the search hasn’t 
been removed from his credit file and I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to take any action about that search.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3451591
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In August 2019 Ms E purchased some new furniture from a supplier and entered into a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
Ms E discovered that one of the items had a defect. The supplier refunded £300 to Ms E 
and subsequently ceased trading. Ms E contacted Creation to raise a section 75 claim. 
Creation accepted that the item had a fault and advised Ms E that she would need to have 
the furniture repaired.
Ms E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service. She wants to 
return the furniture and have the agreement cancelled.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Creation should have given Ms E the 
option of cancelling the agreement, receiving a refund and returning the goods, as well 
as the option to have the goods repaired or replaced. The investigator said that because 
the furniture was faulty at the point of supply, Creation should have cancelled the loan 
and refunded all payments made by Ms E, less the £300 already credited.
Creation didn’t agree. It said that although there was a manufacturing fault with the 
furniture, Ms E hadn’t told Creation about the fault until July 2020, almost 2 years after the 
point of supply. It said that it had contacted the supplier, who had advised that Ms E had 
been offered a replacement item but had then changed her mind and accepted a credit of 
£300 to keep the furniture. Creation said it had offered to pay for repairs to the item and 
refund the cost of the inspection report. It said it had then received an email from Ms E 
advising that she was progressing a claim with her credit card company. Creation said it 
was entitled to offer a repair because no previous repairs had been attempted. It said it 
wanted to see evidence that the claim hadn’t been settled by the credit card company.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer the right to claim against a supplier 
of goods or a provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. 
In order to uphold Ms E’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 
75 wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isn’t the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have 
occurred.
In this case, there’s no dispute that there was a manufacturing fault with the recliner. Ms 
E obtained an inspection report which says that the recliner was faulty at the point of 
supply.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that the recliner had a fault which made it of 
unsatisfactory quality when supplied. So, I’m satisfied that for the purposes of section 75, 
a breach of contract has occurred.
The inspection report states that the recliner has a manufacturing fault. Because the 
recliner was faulty at the point of supply, I think Ms E should have been given the option to 
cancel the agreement and receive a full refund (as well as the option to have the item 
repaired or replaced). These options are consistent with Ms E’s rights under the relevant 
legislation.
I appreciate that Creation weren’t told about the fault until July 2020. Based on what I’ve 
seen, I’m satisfied that the fault was present at the point of supply and that Ms E raised 
her claim under section 75 with Creation as soon as she realised she was able to do so.
I’ve thought about whether the credit provided by the supplier impacts on Ms E’s rights 
under the relevant legislation. I don’t think it affects her right to bring a claim under section 
75, but I think the credit of £300 should be taken account of.
I’ve read Creations comments regarding Ms E’s claim against her credit card provider. I’ve 
seen information which shows that the credit card provider refunded the deposit paid on 
the credit card, so this doesn’t affect any refund of sums paid under the loan agreement.
Putting things right
Based on everything I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract and that 
Ms E is entitled to return the goods for a full refund. I don’t think Creation acted fairly when 
it told Ms E it would arrange for a repair of the goods, because it didn’t offer Ms E the 
option to cancel the agreement, which is one of the options available to her under the 
relevant legislation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must: Cancel the agreement
Arrange for the furniture to be collected at no cost to Ms E
Refund all payments made by Ms E under the loan agreement less the £300 credit 
alreadypaid, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund the cost of the inspection report (£48)
Pay £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience Remove the agreement from Me E’s 
credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3453544
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr U complains that Creation Consumer Finance (Creation) refused his application for 
finance and didn’t provide him with a copy of the application to check.  
What happened
In February 2019 Mr U applied for lending with Creation through a third-party retailer for an 
electronics purchase. The application was declined. 
Mr U thought that he may have mistyped some of the information on the application as it was 
late at night when he was doing the application, and so he asked Creation to review the 
application and to send him a copy of it.
 
Creation reviewed the application but said that Mr U didn’t meet their lending criteria, and the 
application remained refused. They didn’t send Mr U a copy of his application.
Mr U was unhappy with this response. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr U’s case. 
  
Mr U disagreed with our investigator’s view and has asked for an ombudsman’s decision 
which is why it has come to me to review.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I can see how it must have been frustrating for Mr U to be refused this application when he 
considers that there would have been no reasons to do so. 
Mr U has told us that his financial position is strong and he has no adverse credit, and so he 
doesn’t feel that his application should have been declined, which was why he appealed and 
asked for a copy of the application. He was also concerned that he might have mistyped 
information, which resulted in the decline. 
Creation aren’t able to provide us with a copy of the application itself, as they say there isn’t 
an application “form” when the application is made through a third party retailer, and they 
only hold a limited amount of information after an application is declined. However, they 
have provided me with screenshots of the information which they do still hold - which 
includes limited personal data such as name, address, date of birth, and phone number. I 
can see that this information matches the data provided to us by Mr U and so I can’t see that 
anything has been mistyped there. I’m not able to share these screenshots with Mr U as are 
internal to Creation and may contain commercially sensitive material about their business 
processes. 
I appreciate that Mr U is frustrated that Creation didn’t send him a copy of his application to 
check over, but as I have said above, they don’t hold an application that they could send 
back to him. 
In respect of the decision to decline credit, I can see on the screenshot that it says the 
application was declined – but there are no reasons detailed, and Creation no longer hold 
this information.  
     
We aren’t able to tell a business when they should or shouldn’t lend consumer, as each 
financial business has their own lending criteria, and they can exercise their commercial 
judgement on each application. They also don’t need to provide detailed reasons for why an 
application has been declined. Creation have told us that they use information from three 
credit reference agencies together with personal data from the application and enter it into 
their internal scoring system, which determines whether lending can be offered. In this case, 
the scoring system determined that they couldn’t lend, and they are satisfied that the criteria 
have been correctly applied. 
Although we can’t change a lending decision, or say what should have been taken not 
account, we can look to see if Creation have applied their lending criteria fairly. However, as 
Creation are no longer able to provide us with information about the reason for the decision, 
other than the lending criteria weren’t met, I’m unable to comment on this.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my decision is that I don’t uphold Mr U’s complaint about 
Creation Consumer Finance.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3470943
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) started charging interest at 
the end of a buy now pay later period without warning him that it would do so.
What happened
On 29 December 2019 Mr S took out a loan with Creation for a purchase he had made. The 
loan was provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant if Mr S repaid the loan in full 
on or before 14 February 2020 then he wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Otherwise, interest 
would be applied from 29 December 2019 – the date of the loan. 
Mr S didn’t repay the loan in full on or before 14 February 2021 and so Creation added 
interest to the loan from 29 December 2019 and commenced collection of £134.23 a month 
from Mr S’ bank account (by way of direct debit).
Mr S complained to Creation about what had happened. It said that it had sent a reminder on 
15 January 2021 that the buy now pay later period would end on 14 February 2021. Mr S 
said that he didn’t receive this reminder, or any other correspondence from Creation.
Mr S referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was 
satisfied that Creation had sent a reminder on 15 January 2021 (as it said it had) and one on 
18 August 2020. And because of this he wasn’t persuaded that Mr S’ complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr S didn’t accept the investigator’s findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear Mr S has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr S will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Creation was under a duty to send a reminder to Mr S as to when his buy now pay later 
period was due to end. The Financial Conduct Authority’s Handbook says, at CONC 
6.7.16A, that in cases such as Mr S’ a reminder should be sent in an “appropriate medium”. 
As the investigator noted, Creation isn’t able to provide a copy of any letter sent to Mr S, but 
it has provided a template letter and an extract from its internal systems indicating that such 
a letter was sent on 15 January 2021 and 18 August 2020. Its records indicate that it had the 
correct address for Mr S. On balance therefore I think it more likely than not that letters were 
sent to remind Mr S as to when the buy now pay later period would end. 
I believe too that it wasn’t inappropriate for Creation to contact Mr S by letter rather than by 
email and both letters were sent in good time, the 18 August 2020 letter being sent seven 
and half months after the loan was entered into and six months before the buy now pay later 
period was due to end and the 15 January 2021 letter being sent one month before the buy 
now pay later period was due to end. 
I accept that it’s possible – although unlikely – that the letters weren’t safely delivered or that 
Mr S overlooked them. But Creation’s obligation was to send them, and I’m satisfied it did 
that.
On a sperate note I can see that Mr S disputes the buy now pay later end date, suggesting it 
should have been 4 March 2021 rather than 14 February 2021. But I’m not persuaded this is 
material to the outcome of this complaint. I say this because Mr S submits he has suffered 
financially because Creation didn’t notify him of when his buy now pay later period would 
end, not because this date was set by Creation as being 14 February 2021 rather than 
4 March 2021.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, but I’m satisfied that Creation did what it was required 
to do, and what I would expect it to do, in bringing to Mr S’ attention his buy now pay later 
period end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3471432
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has unfairly failed to settle an 
account he had with it for a fixed sum loan because it says the payment was received 
too late.
What happened
In December 2016 Mr B entered into a fixed sum loan for a car with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
In February 2019 Mr B made enquiries about the settlement amount for the credit 
agreement as he intended to use the car in part exchange for another one. Creation 
informed Mr B that the outstanding amount under the agreement was £6,493.91 but said if 
he paid the settlement figure by a set date then he would be entitled to a rebate of 
£764.35 meaning the total payable was £5,729.56.
Mr B part exchanged the car and the dealership said it would pay the settlement amount 
to Creation. The payment was made one day after the set date for the settlement figure 
of £5,729.56 had ended.
Unfortunately, it appears that the dealership didn’t use the account number and Creation 
placed the payment in its suspense account. This meant Mr B’s account wasn’t credited 
with the funds.
In April 2019 Mr B says that Creation took a direct debit for this account from his bank. 
Mr B says he contacted Creation and it apologised and reimbursed this amount. He also 
says he became aware that there was a problem about the funds from the dealership 
having settled his account. He contacted the dealership who provided proof of the 
payment it had made.
He says the dealer went back and forth with Creation and he had to provide the dealer 
with a passcode. Mr B says he was told by Creation that the loan had been cleared with 
nothing to pay. 
The money was finally credited to Mr B’s account by Creation in mid-May 2019. Creation 
says that due to this delay the settlement figure provided in February 2019 no longer 
applied, so instead of clearing the outstanding balance the credit amount was instead 
treated as an overpayment. This meant the rebate wasn’t applied to Mr B’s account.
In May 2021 Creation wrote to Mr B and informed him that his account was now in 
arrears. Mr B made enquiries with Creation and learnt that he owed £764.35 on his 
account due to the late crediting of the money from the dealer.
Mr B complained to Creation. Creation didn’t uphold his complaint. It said the funds 
weren’t credited to Mr B’s account until mid-May 2019 and so the settlement figure no 
longer applied. Creation said Mr B correctly owed the balance.
Mr B was unhappy at Creation’s response and so complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended Mr B’s complaint should be upheld. He said Mr B had intended 
to clear his account and a significant payment had been made although he accepted this 
was a day after the set date for the settlement figure had expired. Our investigator said it 
would be fair for Creation to calculate the settlement figure that would have applied on the 
date the dealer had paid the money in March 2019 and deduct the £5,729.56 from that 
figure. Mr B was to pay the residual amount less any additional interest and charges that 
may have been applied since March 2019.
Our investigator also said that due to Creation’s poor handling of Mr B’s account 
that it should pay him £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr B agreed with our investigator’s view, but Creation disagreed. It said it was Mr B’s 
responsibility to ensure his account was settled in March 2019 and he should have 
checked with it that the money had been received. Creation said the delay with the 
payment not being credited to Mr B’s account until May 2019 should be taken up by him 
with the dealer.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provsional decision along the following lines.
Although I hadn’t been provided with a copy of the credit agreement between Mr B and 
Creation, I accepted that it was Mr B’s responsibility to make sure payments were made 
as required by its terms and conditions.
However, here I’d seen that Mr B had agreed for the dealer to make the settlement 
payment when he part-exchanged the car. And I thought this wouldn’t be an unusual 
agreement between a consumer and a dealer in these circumstances. I’d also seen 
proof that the dealer made the payment one day after the settlement figure had 
expired.
Creation said that Mr B should have made checks that his account had been settled. But 
I’d seen that at the start of April 2019, Mr B had learnt the settlement payment hadn’t been 
received by Creation and that he had immediately taken steps to check things with the 
dealer. The dealer had provided him with a screenshot showing the money being paid to 
Creation in March 2019 albeit one day after the settlement quote had expired.
I accepted Mr B’s evidence that there had been communication back and forth between 
the dealer and Creation. I’d seen an email confirming Mr B had given permission for 
Creation to speak directly with the dealer and that he had provided the dealer with his 
password for the account.
I also thought the situation appeared to have been further confused for Mr B by a direct 
debit payment being taken and then returned after the settlement figure had been paid 
by the dealer. I also accepted Mr B’s evidence that Creation had confirmed to him that 
the account had been settled with nothing further to pay which was why the arrears 
letter arriving in May 2021 had been such a shock for him.
I thought Mr B had acted reasonably when trying to ensure that the settlement payment 
was made to Creation, he had chased up the situation with the dealer and received proof 
of the payment, he had assisted with the dealer communicating with Creation.
I also thought it was fair to take into account that the money had been paid to Creation 
only one day late and that it had confused the situation in the way it had handled the direct 
debit payment and told Mr B the account had been settled.
So, for the reasons set out above, I intended to uphold Mr B’s complaint. And I thought 
a fair solution was for Creation to treat Mr B’s account as settled in March 2019 
(following the payment of £5,729.56) so that there was nothing further to pay and for 
any arrears now showing to be written off. Any payments made by Mr B towards the 
outstanding balance of £764.35 were to be reimbursed together with interest at the 
yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement. Finally, 
any adverse information recorded about this account on Mr B’s credit file are to be 
removed.
Mr B hass agreed with my provisional view. Creation hasn’t asked me to re-consider 
any parts of my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I haven’t been asked to reconsider any of the conclusions that I reached by either 
party, I have still carefully reviewed my reasons for my provisional view. I haven’t changed 
my view. I’m still satisfied that Mr B acted reasonably when arranging to settle his account 
with Creation following the part-exchanging of the car with the dealership. And that it’s also 
fair to take into account that although the money was placed in a holding account by 
Creation rather than used to clear Mr B’s account, the funds had been received by it only 
one day after the settlement figure expired.
Taking into account what happened, and that Creation confused the situation when it 
refunded a direct debit and informed Mr B his account was cleared I still think it’s fair for 
Creation to treat the account as though it had been settled in full in March 2019.
For the reasons given, I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint.
Putting things right
I’m asking Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Treat Mr B’s account as settled in March 2019 following the payment of £5,729.56.

Remove all the arrears so that there is nothing further to pay.

Reimburse any payments made by Mr B towards the arrears amount of 
£764.35 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.

Remove any adverse information recorded about this account from Mr B’s credit 
file.
My final decision
For the reasonsset out above I’m upholding Mr B’s complaint. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Treat Mr B’s account as settled in March 2019 following the payment of £5,729.56.

Remove all the arrears so that there is nothing further to pay.

Reimburse any payments made by Mr B towards the arrears amount of 
£764.35 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.

Remove any adverse information recorded about this account from Mr B’s credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3479940
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr C ordered furniture from a supplier and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation.
The furniture was delivered in June 2020. During delivery, one of the recliners was dropped 
by the delivery team.
Mr C says that the frame of the recliner was bent during the fall and that it made a clicking 
noise when used. He says there were other issues with the furniture, including a loose 
armrest on the sofa and loose upholstery on the recliner.
In June 2020 the supplier’s technician attended to carry out repairs. The sofa armrest was 
repaired but not the recliner.
Mr C chased the supplier about the issues with the recliner. The supplier’s technician 
attended again to look at the issue. A new recliner frame was ordered.
When the new frame arrived, the supplier technician attended to carry out repairs. Mr C 
asked the technician to repair the loose upholstery as well, but the technician said Mr C 
would need to speak to the supplier about this.
When Mr C used the recliner following the repairs, he noticed that the mechanism wasn’t 
working correctly. The clicking noise was still present and the footrest didn’t rise properly. Mr 
C reported this to the supplier.
The supplier caried out an inspection in August 2021 and concluded that the recliner wasn’t 
faulty.
Unable to resolve matters with the supplier, Mr C raised a section 75 complaint with 
Creation. 
Creation rejected the claim. It said the inspection had confirmed that there were no 
manufacturing faults.
Mr C remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says the recliner is still faulty.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said, having considered all of the evidence 
including the photos and videos supplied by Mr C, that he was persuaded that the recliner 
was faulty and that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The investigator 
said that Mr C should be allowed to reject the furniture.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it didn’t think the photos and videos determined that there were 
manufacturing faults and said it wanted to see an independent inspection report from a 
recognised body.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr C’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 
wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. The quality 
of goods includes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
If the goods aren’t of satisfactory quality, then a breach of contract can be said to have 
occurred and I’d expect the provider of credit to put things right, either by offering a repair or 
a refund depending on the circumstances of the case.
I’ve looked at the available evidence. I can see that when the furniture was delivered, the 
delivery driver reported that the sofa arm was coming away. This is consistent with Mr C’s 
testimony that the furniture was dropped during delivery and that the armrest on the sofa 
was loose.
The sofa was inspected the week after delivery. The report dated 18 June 2020 focussed on 
the loose armrest. It doesn’t mention the recliner.
The sofa was inspected again in August 2021. The report states “recliner chair back is loose, 
brackets loose, tightened but still some movement within tolerance”. The report doesn’t 
comment on the recliner mechanism. However, the statement that the recliner chair back is 
loose, and needed to be tightened, suggest that there was an issue with the recliner. 
Creation relies on the report dated August 2021 as evidence that the recliner wasn’t faulty. 
However, I don’t think the report on its own is enough to persuade me that there wasn’t a 
fault. To give the report some context, its necessary to take into account the communication 
between Mr c and the supplier which followed shortly after the report had been completed. In 
this, Mr C states that since the new frame was fitted to the recliner, the seat doesn’t properly 
extend at the front and the mechanism makes a clicking sound during operation.
Based on what I’ve seen, I think its fair to conclude that as at August 2021, there had been 
issues with the recliner since the point of supply which necessitated a new frame to be fitted 
and that following this repair, some issues remained, including a loose back. Based on Mr 
C’s testimony, which has been consistent throughout, I’m persuaded that there were issues 
with the recliner as he has described in his email to the supplier, including the seat not 
extending properly and the mechanism clicking.
However, the inspection report dated August 2021 states that the recliner isn’t faulty, so this 
service asked Mr C to provide more evidence of the faults he’s described.
I’ve reviewed the photos and videos provided by Mr C. One of the photos shows the two 
identical recliners side by side. I can see that the seat of one of the recliners doesn’t extend 
out as far as the other recliner. In the video, I can hear the recliner clicking as the 
mechanism operates.
I’ve also looked at photos of the frame of the recliner. Mr C says that the frame is bent. I 
can’t say for certain whether this is the case, however, I can see that there is a space 
between the cushion and the arm, and that the seat isn’t straight.
Based on what I’ve seen in the photos and videos, I’m persuaded that there is a fault with 
the recliner. It doesn’t operate in the same way as the identical recliner. I don’t think a 
reasonable person would expect two identical recliners, purchased at the same time, to 
operate differently. Further, I don’t think a reasonable person would expect a recliner to have 
an obvious gap between the cushion and the arm, or to click when the mechanism is 
operating. 
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality. I’ve taken into account that 
the recliner was brand new when supplied. The issues reported by Mr C occurred within the 
first 14 months of the recliner being delivered. The recliner hasn’t remained free from minor 
defects for a reasonable period of time from the point of supply.
Based on what I’ve seen, I don’t think the recliner is of satisfactory quality. This means that 
there’s been a breach of contract and that Creation is liable under section 75.
Creation has said that it doesn’t agree that the photos and videos show that the recliner has 
a manufacturing fault. I’ve thought about this. However, I’m satisfied that the photos and 
videos clearly demonstrate that the recliner has a fault. I don’t think its necessary to obtain 
further evidence. Further, and given that there is a history of issues with the furniture which 
necessitated four separate visits to Mr C’s property by the suppliers technician, if Creation 
wanted to see an independent inspection than I think it should have arranged for this to take 
place following the final repair in August 2021, as it was clear then that there were issues 
with the furniture which had been ongoing since the point of supply.
Putting things right
As I’ve said above, the supplier has had more than one opportunity to repair the furniture. I 
don’t think its reasonable to expect Mr C to accept further repairs. Mr C should be allowed to 
reject the furniture.
I’ve thought about whether Mr C should receive a refunds of all payments he’s made under 
the agreement. I’m satisfied that the recliner is faulty. However, Mr C has been able to use it, 
albeit that his use was impaired by the fact that the seat doesn’t extend fully. So, I don’t think 
its fait to ask Creation to refund all of Mr C’s payment. Creation should be allowed to deduct 
10% for the use Mr C has had of the recliner. So, it should refund 90% of Mr C’s payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the furniture to be collected at no cost to Mr C
Refund the deposit of £100
Refund 90% of all payments made by Mr C 
Pay 8% simple interest on all sums refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr C’s credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3485031
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of three items of furniture he acquired under a fixed sum
loan agreement (“agreement”) with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
In August 2019 Mr S decided to buy, from a company that I will call “H”, three items of
furniture, a matching 3-seater sofa, 2-seater sofa and chair.
Based on the order form supplied by Mr S (from H), he was charged the following:

3-seater sofa 
£1,874.00 less 15% (£282.00) 
£1,592.00

2-seater sofa 
£1,599.00 less 15% (£240.00)
£1,359.00

chair 
£1,249.00 less 15% (£188.00) 
£1,061.00

sub total 
£4,012.00

further 7.5% discount 
(£302.40)

sub total 
£3,709.60

delivery 
£69.00

total 
£3,778.60
Based on the agreement Mr S entered into with Creation he was charged the following:

sofas 
£3,318.60

insurance 
£460.00

total 
£3,778.60
And Mr S undertook (everything else being equal) to pay a deposit of £380.00 to H and
£3,398.40 (48 monthly payments of £70.80) to Creation – making a total repayable of
£3,778.40.
Mr S says two of the three items (3-seater sofa and chair) were delivered faulty and because
H didn’t repair or replace them (despite saying that it would do so) he decided, in
October 2020, to bring a claim against Creation under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (“section 75”).
In April 2021, some six months after Mr S first claimed against Creation under section 75,
Creation offered to reduce Mr S’ agreement liability by £2,653.00 (£1,592.00 for the
3-seater sofa plus £1,061.00 for the chair) and to refund him the £48 he had incurred in
getting (in February 2021) a third party inspection report on the three items.
Unhappy with Creations offer, Mr S complained to our service where matters were
considered by two investigators, with the second investigator concluding that Mr S’ complaint
should be upheld and that Creation, to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr S, should:
Refund him:

the deposit he paid of £380

all payments he had made under the agreement

the £48 he incurred in getting a third party inspection report on the three items in
February 2021

the £460 he paid for insurance
Pay him:

interest on the £48 he incurred in getting a third party inspection report on the three
items in February 2021

£2,200.90 for new carpet, his current carpet having been damaged beyond repair by
the three items

£200 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter had caused him
Creation didn’t agree with the investigator’s findings, so matters were referred to me for
review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in May 2022. In summary I said: 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties 
have provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can 
confirm I’ve read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will 
not take the fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account; 
relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. In this case the relevant law includes 
section 75. However, I would like to make clear that although I’m obliged to take into 
account the relevant law (in this case section 75) when I think about what’s a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this complaint, I don’t have to reach the same view as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim via this ‘route’ for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
Section 75, in certain circumstances, provides protection to consumers purchasing 
goods or services with credit. Creation accepts that section 75 applies in this case 
and I agree. This means that Mr S (as he has done so) can claim against Creation for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by H in the supply of the three items. So, 
I’ve taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
was Mr S supplied with damaged and/or unsatisfactory quality items by H?
Given that Creation, under cover of its FRL dated April 2021, offered Mr S a 
£2,653.00 credit against his agreement liability, I don’t think it’s in dispute that Mr S 
was supplied (by H) with at least a 3-seater sofa and a chair that was damaged 
and/or of unsatisfactory quality. So other than saying – at least at this stage – that I 
agree that Mr S was supplied (by H) with items that were damaged and/or of 
unsatisfactory quality, I make no further comment or finding on this particular point.
should Creation have to repair or replace the damaged items supplied to Mr S by H, 
or should it have to make a refund to Mr S?
Taking everything into account I’m satisfied that in the particular circumstances of 
this case a refund, rather than a repair or replacement, is the most appropriate 
remedy here. I’ve come to this conclusion for the following reasons:

Based on what has been said and submitted it’s my understanding that H, 
right from the outset, offered Mr S a refund. So, in my view, Mr S should be 
allowed this option now.

It’s not clear that the damaged items can be repaired, or at least repaired to a
satisfactory standard.

Mr S has allowed ample time for repairs to be undertaken. And given that
approximately two and half years have passed since Mr S took delivery of the 
items I don’t think it would be either fair or reasonable to find that he should 
have to accept a repair now.

It’s my understanding that the items that Mr S purchased are no longer in 
production or available to purchase meaning replacement of the two 
damaged items – with ‘like for like’ new items (so as to maintain a match with 
the undamaged third item) – isn’t an option.

Given that Mr S has been with the three items now for two and half years – 
with two of the items being damaged and/or of unsatisfactory quality – I’m not 
persuaded (although never an option/remedy offered by Creation) that he 
should have to accept a replacement of all three items as a remedy. In my 
view the fair and reasonable thing in this case would be for Mr S to be able to 
purchase items of his own choosing and in his own time.
how much should Creation have to refund Mr S?
I note Creation says it should only have to refund the cost of the two damaged items, 
not all three. But I disagree.
Based on what has been said and submitted I’m satisfied that Mr S purchased three 
items of matching furniture and the ‘set of three items’ as a whole was damaged 
and/or of unsatisfactory quality. And because of this, Mr S should reasonably be 
refunded the cost of all three items, not just two.
To achieve this, I find that Creation should:

Collect, at no cost to Mr S, the three items. Alternatively, pay Mr S £200 to 
cover the cost and inconvenience of having to dispose of the three items 
himself.

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.

Refund the £380 deposit paid by Mr S together with interest to reflect the time 
he has been without this money.

Refund all payments made by Mr S under the agreement together with 
interest to reflect the time he has been without these monies.
By doing the above Mr S will not be left out of pocket as a result of what H charged 
him for the three items, including any incidental costs such as delivery and insurance.
what else should Creation have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr S?
I also think that Mr S has incurred additional costs and been caused both distress 
and inconvenience by Creations’ delay in deciding his claim for which he should be 
fairly compensated for. And in this respect I find that Creation should:

Refund Mr S the £48 he incurred in getting a third party inspection report on 
the three items in February 2021 together with interest to reflect the time he 
has been without this money.

£200 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him.

Ensure any adverse information it may have recorded with third party credit 
reference agencies in respect of Mr S’ agreement is removed.
I would now like to address what Mr S says is damage to his carpet caused by the 
three items and for which the second investigator made an award of £2,200.90.
Based on what has been said and submitted I’m satisfied that the three items 
supplied to Mr S, by H, have made marks in, or caused damage to, his carpet. But 
I’m not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct Creation to pay Mr S 
£2,200.90 for this.
Now had Mr S been happy with the quality of the three items supplied to him by H, I 
don’t think he would be making a claim for damage to his carpet, nor would I expect 
him to have done. This is because I would have expected Mr S to accept that the 
supplied three items would leave marks in, or cause damage to, his carpet.
But had Mr S been happy with the three items supplied to him by H he would have 
had the choice never to move them and therefore the choice to never have ‘on show’ 
the resulting marks in, or damage to, his carpet.
Now it could be said that Mr S could buy three replacement items of exactly the same
dimensions as those supplied to him by H and place these items in the same position 
as those he was replacing. And this would mean that the marks in, or damage to, his 
carpet wouldn’t be on show. However, I’m not persuaded that this would be easy for 
Mr S to do, or indeed even possible for him to do.
But I’m satisfied that Mr S can buy three replacement items with similar dimensions 
to those supplied to him by H meaning some, or even most, of the marks in, or 
damage to, his carpet can be hidden from show.
I’m also mindful that Mr S’ current carpet is seven years old and cost less than 
£2,200.90 and that with the passage of time the marks in, or damage to, the carpet 
might lessen. So, with all this in mind – and I will consider anything Mr S or Creation 
might want to say or submit on this particular point – I find the fairest outcome in this 
respect is for Creation to pay Mr S £400 by way of a contribution towards a new 
carpet, not the whole cost of a new one.
So, in summary, I’m currently minded to uphold Mr S’ complaint but minded to direct
Creation to compensate him in a different manner to that recommended by the 
second investigator.
Creation responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted it.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to say that to be fairly compensated Creation 
should have to pay him closer to £1,500.00 by way of a contribution towards a new carpet.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that a sum closer to £1,500.00 would be a fairer sum for Creation to have to pay 
him by way of a contribution towards a new carpet.
In support of his view in this respect, Mr S has provided a calculation which I can confirm I’ve 
considered very carefully. 
Now had Mr S’ carpet sustained damage, such as a large red wine spill right in the middle of 
it that wouldn’t come out (and assuming Creation could be held responsible for such 
damage) then I might have found that it should have to pay Mr S more than a £400 
contribution towards a new carpet, and possibly a sum closer to the £1,500.00 Mr S is now 
looking for.
But what has been sustained here is marks in, or damage to, Mr S’ carpet that would have 
occurred in any event, in other words occurred regardless of the quality of the three items 
supplied. Furthermore, these marks in, or damage to, Mr S’ carpet can – following the 
purchase by Mr S of three replacement items – be hidden from show, at least to some 
degree and it’s quite possible these marks or damage might lessen over time or even 
disappear altogether.
So, I’m simply not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to direct Creation to pay anything 
more than £400.00 by way of a contribution to a new carpet, although as noted in my 
provisional decision a court might come to a different finding to me in this respect.
Given what I say above and given that Creation has confirmed its acceptance of my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now 
confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that is I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Collect, at no cost to Mr S, the three items. Alternatively, pay Mr S £200 to cover 
the cost and inconvenience of having to dispose of the three items himself.

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.

Ensure any adverse information recorded with third party credit reference agencies 
in respect of the agreement is removed.

Refund the £380 deposit paid by Mr S together with 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement*.

Refund all payments made by Mr S under the agreement together with 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement*.

Pay Mr S £400 for the damage caused to his carpet by the three items.

Refund Mr S the £48 he incurred in getting a third party inspection report on the 
three items in February 2021 together with 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement*.

Pay Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused 
him.
* HMRC requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take off tax from this interest. If Mr S 
asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3489526
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd added late payment charges to 
his account.
What happened
Creation charged Mr S a late payment fee of £30 – it said that his direct debit had been 
cancelled. Mr S has said that the direct debit wasn’t cancelled and that there were funds in 
his bank account in June and July 2021 when the payments were due. Mr S’s bank 
confirmed that there was no attempt to claim the direct debit in June or July 2021. 
In the light of this evidence our investigator recommended that Creation remove the £30 late 
payment charge from his account and pay Mr S £50 in compensation. She also 
recommended that Creation confirm to Mr S that if his account is in credit this situation will 
not arise in the future.
Mr S accepted the recommendation, but Creation didn’t respond.
What I’ve decided – and why
The facts aren’t in dispute. When Mr S contacted Creation it suggested he contact his bank. 
I think that was a reasonable request. He did this only to be told that no request for payment 
had been made. Mr S has demonstrated that his account had sufficient funds to meet the 
demands, if made. I’m satisfied that a direct debit was in place and have seen that the first 
payment was taken on 1 March 2021. Creation didn’t respond with any further explanation 
so it remains unclear as to why the payments weren’t taken or indeed what happened. 
Nevertheless as I’m satisfied that there was no fault on Mr S’s part or of his bank I find it 
more likely than not that the issue started with Creation.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
In the circumstances I’m satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for the late payment 
charge of £30 pertaining to June and July 2021 to be removed from his account. 
I agree too that the matter has caused Mr S some inconvenience and compensation in the 
sum of £50 is merited. 
It stands to reason that if the account is in credit the situation should not arise again – I make 
no direction on this. Of course, it is open to Mr S to raise the issue with Creation in the first 
instance should the same situation occur again.
For completeness I would say that my decision does not mean that any arrears are not 
payable – they remain due.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Remove the late payment charge of £30 pertaining to June and July 2021

Pay Mr S £50 in compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3491048
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined to uphold his claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 that there had be a misrepresentation as to 
the cost of carpets which he’d financed via a fixed sum loan.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr W visited a retailer and selected some carpets and items of furniture 
he wished to purchase. There was a promotion available for the carpets to be fitted 
free.
Mr W says he was quoted a price of £3,299 for the carpets and £249 for the furniture. The 
carpet cost was subject to a surveyor visiting his home to take measurements. Mr W says 
he was told that he may have to pay the carpet fitters on the day they attended to fit the 
carpet but the cost of this (around £390) would then be deducted from the price of the 
carpets.
Mr W was happy at the cost quoted for the carpets and arranged for the surveyor to visit. 
Around two weeks later the surveyor attended and measured up. Mr W says that following 
the measurements being taken the cost of the carpet increased by £89.11. Mr W says that 
when the surveyor attended, they had a hand-held electronic device with them, and he 
was asked to sign this device to say that the measurements taken were accurate. Mr W 
says that he wasn’t provided with any paperwork by the surveyor and there was no 
discussion about any carpet fitting fee.
The following day Mr W returned to the shop to place the order. He says there was some 
confusion about the cost with the salesperson he spoke with who wasn’t the same person 
he’d originally dealt with. Mr W says that after some time the salesperson confirmed the 
cost of the carpets and the furniture was now £3,638.88.
Mr W says that the order that was then produced wasn’t correct, so he wrote amendments 
on it including that the carpet cost was £3,389.01 and the furniture cost was £249.87. He 
took a photo of this order form with his amendments and told the salesperson he would 
send it to them via email so there was a copy of what had been agreed. Mr W also signed 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for the amount of £3,638.88. Mr W says he 
confirmed with the salesperson that this would be the total cost with nothing additional to 
pay and that the carpet fitting was free.
Mr W sent the salesperson the photo together with an email saying, “thanks for sorting 
the price error regarding the fitting showing”. He also set out the cost of the carpet as 
£3,389.01 and the furniture as £249.87. The salesperson responded that the contents of 
the email was “correct”.
When the carpet fitters arrived in August 2020, they informed Mr W that he was required 
to pay them £390 for their service. Mr W paid that amount and then contacted the retailer 
asking for that amount to be deducted from finance agreement. The retailer didn’t reduce 
the amount of credit and so Mr W complained to Creation.
Creation didn’t uphold Mr W’s claim that he should be reimbursed £390 for the carpet 
fitting. It said that on the estimate document it sent out it showed there was a fitting fee of 
£389.98 to pay directly to the fitters and that this amount had been deducted from the 
original cost of the carpet making the fitting free. It said the carpet price after the fitting fee 
had been deducted was £3,389.01. It also said that the surveyor who visited Mr W’s 
home would have explained about the fitting fee being paid directly to the carpet fitters 
and that Mr W had signed to say he understood this.
Creation said that it had spoken with the sales manager who had confirmed they had 
informed Mr W about the need to pay the fitters directly when he ordered the carpet. It said 
the retailer had provided Mr W with a copy of the internal costing document which it said 
also showed that the cost of the fitting had been deducted from the cost of the carpet.
Mr W disagreed with Creation, he disputed that the surveyor had said anything about the 
fitting cost being deducted or that payments would need to be made directly to the fitters. 
He said he had been assured that there wouldn’t be any additional cost to the £3,638.88 
he’d taken out via the fixed sum loan. Mr W complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr W’s complaint should be upheld. She said she was 
satisfied that the cost of the carpet had been misrepresented to Mr W and that this 
misrepresentation had induced Mr W to enter the contract since it had been cheaper 
than another quote he’d obtained.
Our investigator said that there had been a discussion between the retailer and Mr W 
about discrepancies on the invoice and the retailer had agreed about the cost of the 
carpets and furniture. There had been no mention, she said, about the fitting of the 
carpet having been discounted from the price of the carpets and that would have been 
the time to clarify there was an additional cost for Mr W to pay directly to the fitters. Our 
investigator said no new invoice was provided to Mr W, but if it had it would have only 
shown the cost of the carpets and furniture.
To put things right, our investigator said it would be fair for Creation to reimburse Mr W the
£390 carpet fitting fee he’d paid together with interest. She also said it would be fair for 
Creation to pay Mr W compensation of £75 to reflect the length of time it had taken to 
deal with his claim under section 75 and its lack of communication.
Mr W had agreed with our investigator’s view, but Creation disagreed. It said that when 
Mr W returned to the store after the surveyor had visited his home, an order was built and 
then cancelled meaning the order had to be rebuilt as it hadn’t included the free fitting 
discount. It was the original order that Mr W was basing his argument that the discount 
hadn’t been applied but Creation said the order form Mr W had written the corrections on 
had been void due to the second order having then been created.
Creation said that the second order was then built but because the first order had been 
cancelled and this second one was a “re-build” there was no new order form generated. 
The amount of £3,638.98 as set out in the second order and as reflected in the finance 
agreement had included a £390 price deduction for the carpet fitting cost that Mr W would 
need to pay separately. Creation said Mr W would have been aware of this deduction.
Creation provided a copy of the Masterpiece Survey image which it said showed that the 
carpet fitter would need to be paid for the fitting and that Mr W had signed this document. 
It has also provided a copy of the contract’s terms and conditions which set out at 13.2 
that there was a separate agreement with the carpet fitter. Creation said there hadn’t been 
a misrepresentation and there should be no reimbursement of the carpet fitters’ costs 
because this had already been factored into the costings. It said Mr W’s claim under 
section 75 had correctly been declined.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. Due to 
the additional evidence that was provided by Creation I issued a provisional decision along 
the following lines.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer 
has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a fixed sum loan, and 
they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is 
Creation.
My role was to decide whether Creation had acted fairly and reasonably in its response to 
Mr W’s claim under section 75. Creation said it had received evidence from the retailer 
and that it was satisfied there was no breach of contract and that no misrepresentation 
had occurred.
Creation said that Mr W should have been aware that the cost of the carpet fitting 
had already been deducted from the costs of the carpet when reaching the total to 
pay of
£3,638.98.
It was agreed that the retailer was offering a promotion of free carpet fitting when 
carpeting was purchased from it. And because the carpet fitters were sub-contractors and 
therefore subject to a separate agreement then as they would be paid directly by the 
consumer the cost of the fitting would be deducted from the cost of supplying the carpet 
by the retailer. However, Mr W said this arrangement wasn’t made clear to him. He said 
that he was only told he “might/would” have to pay the fitters directly but if he did then 
there would be a reimbursement made to him for that amount. Mr W was adamant he had 
been told the total price he had to pay for the carpets and furniture (including the items 
being delivered and installed) was £3,638.98.
As Mr W had ordered goods and these had been supplied, I couldn’t reasonably say 
there had been a breach of contract, Mr W appeared to have been happy with the 
goods and he hadn’t raised any breaches of the terms and conditions of the agreement 
to supply them.
For me to be satisfied a misrepresentation has occurred I would need evidence that there 
had been a false statement of fact made by the retailer which had induced Mr W to enter 
into the agreement. Mr W said that he’d already received one quote for similar carpets 
from somewhere else but had accepted this one because it had worked out cheaper. I 
think price was therefore an important factor for Mr W and I’d seen that there had been 
discussion between him and retailer about the costs of the carpets.
Creation had produced a number of documents that it was relying on to show this amount 
had been deducted before reaching the overall price for the carpets and furniture of 
£3,638.98.
However, I wasn’t clear which of these documents Mr W had actually seen.
At Mr W’s first visit to the retailer, where he had chosen the carpets, it appeared he had 
been told by the salesperson that he may have to pay the fitters separately, but this figure 
would then be deducted from the costs. I accepted Mr W’s account which had been 
consistent that this was what he had been told. At this visit Mr W had applied for the fixed 
sum loan from Creation though the exact sum to be borrowed needed to be verified by 
having the floor space accurately measured.
The surveyor had then attended Mr W’s property to measure up. I hadn’t seen any 
evidence that Mr W had been left with any paperwork after that visit. Mr W said the 
surveyor hadn’t discussed the carpet fitters or any fee that they may charge. It was agreed 
Mr W had signed a tablet device the surveyor had, though Mr W said this was just to 
confirm the measurements had been accurate.
Looking at the photo of this device that had been supplied by Creation I saw Mr W’s 
signature and that above that it set out the estimate of £4,031.50 and of that figure it said 
£3,541.52 was owed to the stores and £489.98 was “payable to the fitter on the day of 
fitting”. This paragraph was silent as to whether the fitters’ fee had already been deducted 
from the cost of the flooring. I didn’t know if these figures had been discussed with Mr W 
or whether he had been given time to properly look at the estimate. I understood the 
figure of just over £4,000 had been reached because Mr W had also been quoted for 
laminate flooring, which meant the fitter’s fee had been higher. As Mr W wasn’t left with 
anything to read over and check and had needed to return to the shop to make his order, I 
didn’t think I could reasonably say that Mr W’s signature on this device showed he was 
aware that any fitter’s fee had already been deducted from the carpet costs.
Mr W had returned to the store and made his order, he had by then decided not to have 
the laminate fitted and so the figures had needed to be adjusted. Mr W said it had taken 
time for the salesperson at this visit to match the estimate he’d been given. He was aware 
there was an increase to the cost following the measurements being taken. Creation has 
supplied copies of the order though I understood because the first order had been 
cancelled no new order had been generated when this order was then rebuilt.
I appreciated that the orders on the retailer’s system showed that there was a deduction 
for the carpet fitters’ fee, but I still hadn’t seen any evidence this information had been 
provided to Mr W in any invoice or order form. I’d seen an order form created at Mr W’s 
second visit to the store which sets out that the cost of the carpets amounted to £3,769.36 
and this said that the carpet fitters fee of £389.97 hadn’t been added. But again, I hadn’t 
seen any evidence this document had been provided to Mr W or that he had seen it. Mr W 
appeared to only have been provided with the one order form which he had amended and 
sent to the salesperson who confirmed it was correct.
Mr W said although it was suggested he may have to pay the fitters’ fee directly this wasn’t 
entirely clear although he was assured if he made any payment then this amount would be 
deducted from the credit agreement. Creation pointed out that in the terms and conditions 
of the contract to supply the carpet it clearly set out that any agreement with a carpet fitter 
was separate. I didn’t know if these terms and conditions were supplied to Mr W, he hadn’t 
mentioned being provided with them. Looking at term 13 which covered carpet fitting, I 
could see it set out that if a fitter was used via the store then there would be a separate 
contract with them. It also stated that there was a standard tariff applied by the fitters 
which consumers would pay directly to the fitter. However, the carpets chosen by Mr W 
had been advertised as having free fitting so I didn’t think this term was clear as to what 
would be expected to have happened in regard to the fitting fee. I didn’t think this term 
meant I could reasonably say Mr W had been aware he had to make a direct payment to 
the fitter. 
I’d seen a copy of the documentation Mr W said he had been provided with. This was the 
order form that he had hand-amended because the costings shown on it had been wrong. 
Mr W had photographed this document and sent it to the salesperson asking whether his 
calculations as to the cost of the carpets were now correct. The salesperson had 
confirmed that they were. There was no mention either on this form or in the email 
correspondence that Mr W would still be required to pay an additional £390 to the carpet 
fitters. I thought Mr W’s enquiry had been clear that he was asking about the total amount 
he would be paying for the carpets which included the fitting.
I was satisfied there had been a misrepresentation made to Mr W as to the cost of the 
carpets by the retailer. I thought Mr W had been consistent in what he said had happened 
and that he had been assured there would be nothing more to pay on top of the 
£3,638.98. I’d seen he’d raised his complaint quickly after paying the fee to the carpet 
fitters. I thought the salesperson appeared to have been confused over the calculation of 
the costs of the carpet and the inclusion/deduction of any carpet fitting fee and that they 
had misled Mr W as to the final overall costs of having the carpet supplied and fitted. I 
hadn’t seen any evidence that Mr W had been shown a copy of an order form that clearly 
set out the fitters’ cost had been deducted from the cost of the carpet. He had relied on 
what he’d been told by the salesperson.
So, I intended to uphold Mr W’s complaint and I’m asked Creation to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
I also thought that Creation hadn’t dealt with Mr W’s section 75 claim in a timely manner 
and had lacked communication with him. For that I thought it was fair that Creation pay 
Mr W £75 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience this would have 
caused him.
Both Mr W and Creation have accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have been asked to review my provisional decision I have still looked again at the 
evidence and my conclusions and I haven’t changed my view. I’m still satisfied that the costs 
of the carpet and fitting were misled to Mr W and this information had induced him into 
entering the contract for their supply. So, I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint.
Putting things right
I’m asking Creation to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mr W £75 compensation for the delays and lack of communication 
in the handling of his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I’m upholding Mr W’s complaint. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Reimburse Mr W £390 fitting fee, plus interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mr W £75 compensation for the delays and lack of communication 
in the handling of his section 75 claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3493110
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a bed he financed through an agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr R has been represented by his partner throughout this complaint but for ease, and 
because Mr R is named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to him in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R and I was really sorry to hear about the pain and discomfort his 
partner had been experiencing, but I’m afraid I agree with the investigator’s view of this 
complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made through a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
If the bed or mattress was faulty then there may have been a breach of contract as it’s an 
implied condition of the contract that the goods are of satisfactory quality. But there’s no 
evidence here that the mattress or bed is of unsatisfactory quality. Mr R’s partner simply 
finds it, and its replacement, uncomfortable and painful to sleep on, but they admit there’s no 
fault with the goods.
I understand Mr R feels he was pressured into the sale and if there was evidence of that I 
may think there was a reason for Creation to uphold the complaint. But there is no record of 
the conversations Mr R or his partner had with the supplier and as Mr R signed the contract 
and agreed to its terms I don’t think I have sufficient evidence the bed was mis-sold to him.
Mr R also says he should have been allowed to return the bed within the 14-day cooling off 
period. Creation’s contact notes say an agreement was reached for Mr R’s partner to try the 
bed for a few more weeks and if that wasn’t successful they would consider a lower profile 
mattress. I can see that’s what the business eventually did, and I don’t think there’s evidence 
that Mr R asked to reject the bed until after the 14-day period had expired. 
So, whilst I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr R and his partner, I’m afraid I don’t think 
there is sufficient evidence to persuade me Creation have done anything wrong here and I’m 
not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3493790
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) as she believes they 
didn’t credit a payment she made to her credit agreement in a reasonable time.
What happened
Miss B purchased an item from a third-party and at the time, she took out an interest-free 
credit agreement with Creation. The credit agreement was for 20 months, with monthly 
instalments of around £35 to be paid. The total amount payable was £707.
Miss B says she made an additional payment of £100 on 12 November 2021 through a 
portal with Creation. Miss B says she couldn’t see her payment had credited her account 
and was unhappy with the length of time it was taking.
On 18 November 2021, Miss B contacted Creation and says she was on hold for over an 
hour. During that conversation Miss B says she was told that the payment would credit her 
account immediately, however this didn’t happen. She says she chased Creation for a 
response and after a number of attempts, she lodged a complaint with them. Creation say 
they received Miss B’s complaint on 22 November 2021.
The payment credited Miss B’s account on 23 November 2021.
Creation responded to Miss B on 7 December 2021, explaining that the payment she had 
made was located on a third-party payment processing system. As a result, they say the 
payment had to be applied manually to Miss B’s account and couldn’t happen straight away. 
So, they apologised for the misinformation Miss B may have been given over the phone. 
They also explained that normally, Miss B’s payment should have registered on her account 
by the end of the next day, but due to a system issue it hadn’t. So, Creation applied £25 
credit to Miss B’s account as they acknowledged they had made a mistake and for the 
inconvenience caused to Miss B in having to contact them about the issue.
Miss B, unhappy with Creation’s response, referred her complaint to our service. Miss B is 
also unhappy as she feels Creation have not adhered to deadlines they should have when 
responding to her complaint with them.
Our investigator found that Creation had already put things right for Miss B by way of an 
apology, crediting the missed payment to her account and by providing an extra payment to 
recognise the inconvenience caused. So, she didn’t feel Creation needed to do anything 
further.
Miss B disagreed as she didn’t feel the £25 credited was enough to cover the inconvenience 
caused. And so, the complaint was passed to me to decide on.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint and I’ll explain why below.
Creation has explained that the payment Miss B had made to her account was located on a 
third-party payment processing system that they use. They say they had system issues and 
that, while normally, the payment should have credited Miss B’s account by the end of 
following day it was made, in this instance, it had to be applied to the account manually. This 
is something they say couldn’t be completed immediately and can take 3-5 working days.
Creation acknowledged they had made a mistake and that the payment should have 
credited Miss B’s account sooner than it did. They also acknowledge they may have given 
incorrect information to Miss B in a conversation. As it isn’t in dispute that Creation fell short 
of what they say they normally would provide, I’ve gone onto consider whether Creation’s 
offer to Miss B was fair and reasonable.
I would like to reassure Miss B that I have carefully thought about what she has said. I 
appreciate Miss B feels she spent some time contacting Creation to get this matter resolved 
and I accept this might have been a frustrating experience for her. Creation’s mistake was a 
one-off incident, and its impact lasted a relatively short amount of time. 
Creation rectified the issue for Miss B within a week of her bringing it to their attention, and 
that they also acknowledged they had made a mistake and put things right for her. 
Considering the credit agreement taken out was interest free and there wasn’t any knock-on 
impact of interest or charges that accrued, I’m satisfied the £25 credit Creation placed on 
Miss B’s account is a fair way to resolve this matter. So, I think Creation’s apology and £25 
credit is enough in this instance.
Miss B is also unhappy as she feels Creation have not adhered to deadlines they should 
have when responding to her complaint with them. As complaint handling isn’t a regulated 
activity that falls within the remit of this service, I’m not able to consider this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3494227
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) didn’t agree to a second 
Covid-related payment deferral when his first came to an end. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them here. 
Instead, I’ll focus on the reasons for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had a running credit account with Creation. Mr W’s finances were impacted by the 
pandemic so in January 2021 he asked Creation for support. Creation agreed a three-month 
Covid-related payment deferral, meaning he wouldn’t need to make any payments until 
April 2021 and his credit file wouldn’t be adversely impacted. I find Creation treated Mr W 
fairly here as he asked for support, and he got it. And what he got was in line with guidance 
issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).
In April 2021 Mr W’s situation hadn’t improved so he asked Creation for a second 
three-month payment deferral. Mr W’s request was declined as Creation didn’t think he was 
eligible. The relevant guidance can be found on the FCA’s website, but for ease I’ll include 
the relevant sections below:
“1.8 Eligible customers seeking a first payment deferral, and those eligible customers who 
have previously accessed payment deferrals that totalled less than 6 months under this 
guidance, can seek a new payment deferral up to 31 March 2021. 
1.9 We expect firms to extend ongoing payment deferrals under this guidance after 
31 March 2021 to cover payments up to and including July 2021 provided these deferrals 
cover consecutive payments and a customer is otherwise eligible for a further payment 
deferral. This means that firms should not give payment deferrals under this guidance to 
customers after 31 March 2021 unless they are already benefitting from one at the time they 
are being considered for an extension.
2.1 Subject to the limitations in paragraphs 2.2 to 2.4 [these aren’t applicable here]: 

a firm should regard a customer who is experiencing, or reasonably expects to 
experience, payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus 
as eligible for a payment deferral; but

after 31 March 2021, a firm should only regard a customer as eligible for a further 
payment deferral if it would cover payments that are consecutive with those deferred 
under a previous one granted under this guidance.”
Creation considers Mr W ineligible for a second payment deferral because he asked for it 
after 31 March 2021. I can see why it reached this conclusion. I have, however, reached a 
different conclusion. 
Mr W was already benefitting from a payment deferral when he made his request, meaning 
the second payment deferral would cover payments that were consecutive to those deferred 
under a previous payment deferral. I also note the guidance says payment deferrals could 
cover payments to 31 July 2021. If no payment deferrals could be agreed after 
31 March 2021 - as Creation suggests - no payment deferral could last beyond the end of 
June 2021. 
I’m satisfied the intention of the guidance was for someone in Mr W’s position to be eligible 
for a second payment deferral. So I’m satisfied Mr W has lost out because Creation declined 
his request. This includes, but isn’t limited to: an additional strain on Mr W’s finances (and 
the impact that entailed), the need to pursue the matter with Creation and likely an adverse 
impact on his credit file as he couldn’t afford the April 2021 payment.
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
-
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr W’s credit file for the duration of 
what should have been two consecutive three-month payment deferrals; and
 
-
pay Mr W £100 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3498331
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss H complains that she was unable to access her online account for a finance agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“CCF”)
What happened
In June 2020 Miss H purchased a carpet from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with CCF.
When Miss H tried to log on to her online account, she found that her password wouldn’t 
work. She contacted CCF several times, but the issue wasn’t resolved.
Miss H raised a complaint with CCF. CCF acknowledged that there was an issue with the 
Online Account Manager (OAM) but said there was currently no fix for the issue. CCF 
advised Miss H to contact the Customer Service Department for any queries relating to her 
account.
Miss H brought her complaint to this service. She’s since paid off the account in full but feels 
that she should be compensated for the time she’s spent contacting CCF to try and resolve 
the issue.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said that Miss H’s ability to make monthly 
repayments hadn’t been affected by not being able to access her online account. She also 
said that Miss H had the option to contact the Customer Service Department if she had any 
queries relating to her account. The investigator acknowledged that Miss H had been caused 
some inconvenience but said that the compensation already paid by CCF was fair and 
reasonable.
Miss H didn’t agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at Miss H’s finance agreement. This shows that a direct debit was set up for Miss 
H’s monthly repayments and that she made repayments without missing any for the duration 
of the agreement.
CCF don’t dispute that Miss H was unable to access her online account. It explained to Miss 
H that there was a known issue for which no fix was currently available and provided her 
with an alternative option for contacting them if she had any queries regarding her account.
Miss H has said she didn’t have access to her online account for around two years. She’s 
said that she called CCF several times and was promised calls back but instead they wrote 
to her and said they couldn’t help. 
I’ve thought about how not being able to access her online account has impacted Miss H. I 
appreciate that not being able to access her account has caused Miss H frustration and 
inconvenience. I also appreciate that Miss H spent time contacting CCF about the issue. 
However, based on what I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that Miss H’s ability to make her 
monthly repayments was impacted. 
Miss H has told this service that if she’d had access to her online account she would’ve paid 
off the loan sooner. However, I think Miss H could have contacted the Customer Service 
Department if she’d wanted to make additional payments or settle the account early. 
I’ve already said that I appreciate that Miss H has spent a lot of time trying to resolve this 
issue. So, I’ve thought about whether CCF has done enough to compensate Miss H for the 
inconvenience. CCF has already paid compensation totalling £200 to Miss H since she first 
raised her complaint. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think the compensation already paid to Miss H in 
respect of her lack of online access is fair and reasonable, and in line with what this service 
would award. Because of this, I won’t be asking CCF to pay further compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3499378
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a credit 
facility he couldn’t afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2017, Mr A was provided with a £1,500 credit facility by Creation which he used to 
make a buy now pay later purchase. 
Mr A says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the facility wasn’t affordable. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it carried out 
a thorough assessment which included gathering information about Mr A’s residential status, 
employment and salary band and undertaking a credit check. It says that Mr A met its 
internal lending criteria. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit facility.
Mr A didn’t agree and said that it was accepted that Creation hadn’t done adequate checks. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation carried out a credit check and has provided the outcome from this. This showed 
that Mr A had just under £200 in credit card debt, no outstanding debt in short term lending, 
no monthly commitments in secured lending and £296 of unsecured lending. I think it would 
have been reasonable that the credit check would have been used to identify any issues with 
Mr A’s credit history such as defaults, county court judgements or arrears. I haven’t seen 
evidence that this information was gathered. Mr A provided a copy of his credit file and this 
shows that he had defaulted on a credit card in February 2017 and had been in arrears on a 
second credit card account for several months. Given this, I think Creation ought to have 
been concerned that Mr A may be experiencing some financial difficulties. Therefore, I think 
it would have been proportionate for Creation to have got a more thorough understanding of 
Mr A’s financial circumstances before lending.
On the finance application, Mr A declared his income as being between £40,000 and 
£49,999. Given the credit information, I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to 
have checked Mr A’s income in some way. Information was gathered on Mr A’s credit 
commitments, and he was recorded as living with parents and having no dependents. But 
Creation didn’t ask Mr A about his expenditure. Without knowing what Mr A’s regular 
committed expenditure was, Creation wouldn’t have got a reasonable understanding of 
whether the agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didn’t complete proportionate 
checks. 
I’ve considered what Creation would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate affordability checks. I can’t be certain what Mr A would have told Creation had 
it asked about his regular expenditure. I don’t think Creation needed to request bank 
statements, but in the absence of anything else, I’ve placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Mr A’s statements as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. 
I’ve reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application. Based on Mr A’s 
declared income at the application stage, he would have received a minimum monthly take 
home pay of around £2,540. His bank statements didn’t support this. The banks statements 
show that Mr A received income from different sources as well as transferring funds from 
other sources. The income recorded in the three months leading up to the agreement varied 
significantly. May’s figures seem much lower than those for March and April, however taking 
the average he was receiving income into his account of around £1,700 a month (excluding 
the payments from his partner, funds he has said came from the sale of his car and an 
amount deposited which he said was for a family member).
Mr A had some regular committed expenses, including credit cards, loan repayments, 
insurance and payment to communications providers. These totalled around £1,000 a 
month. Mr A was living at home and says he was making payments for board. These 
amounts varied but including an average for this as well as for his food and fuel meant that 
Mr A was spending around the same amount that he was receiving in income. 
While this could raise concerns, I note that the projected monthly repayment after the 
interest free period for the purchase Mr A had made (£718.99) was around £40. While I 
appreciate the total facility provided was for a higher amount, I do not think that the 
repayment amounts raise concerns when compared to Mr A’s income. Mr A’s bank 
statements were generally in credit through the months leading up to the agreement and he 
was able to make transfers to his saving accounts and was transferring funds in from 
another account when needed. Therefore, I do not find that the bank statements raise 
concerns about financial difficulties at the time. 
On balance, noting the likely repayment amounts for the facility I do not find that I have 
enough to say that had further checks taken place Creation would have found the credit 
facility unaffordable or that Mr A would’ve disclosed information that suggested he didn’t 
have sufficient funds to meet the repayments. Therefore, I’m not persuaded that Creation 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t find that I have enough evidence to uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3499748
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs H acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation, it says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs H. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 46,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present, but I don’t think they’d expect the 
engine to need replacing after only 60,000 miles.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory 
quality we should also consider whether it has been durable. A franchised dealership and a 
specialist garage have both explained that this failure should be considered premature. 
Mrs H has provided evidence to show she has serviced the car to the manufacturer’s 
recommendations and in those circumstances I think there is evidence the engine should 
have been more durable and the car was therefore of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows Creation one opportunity to repair the car so Creation should 
collect the car and repair it at no cost to Mrs H.
Mrs H has had to pay to have the timing belt and turbo replaced and she wouldn’t have had 
to do that if the car was of satisfactory quality. So, Creation should refund the cost of those 
repairs (£2,200 inclusive of VAT) and add 8% simple interest per year. Mrs H has already 
provided a copy of that receipt to this service. They should add interest to that refund as   
Mrs H has been deprived of the money.
Mrs H broke down on 14 October 2021 and hasn’t used the car since. It’s fair for Creation to 
retain any monthly finance instalments she paid up to that point in respect of the fair use  
Mrs H had from the car. But Creation should refund any subsequent payments Mrs H has 
made to her finance agreement and until the car is repaired. They should add interest to that 
refund as Mrs H has been deprived of the money.
I can see Mrs H has been inconvenienced by these issues. She’s had to make alternative 
travel arrangements to ensure her children got to school and she’s had to have the car 
recovered. She’s also had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have 
been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Creation should pay her £300 to compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience she’s experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Repair the car at no cost to Mrs H.

Reimburse Mrs H for the cost of turbo charger and timing chain replacement 
(£2,200), as these costs are a direct result of the car’s lack of conformity.

Reimburse the monthly repayments made to cover the period between 14 October 
2021 until the car is repaired, in respect of loss of use.

Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.

Compensate £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3502618
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd had recorded loans in her name that 
she says were taken out fraudulently.
What happened
Miss B contacted Creation about the loans. She said that these were taken out in 2018 by a 
family member without her knowledge. She was unhappy that it didn’t deal with this.
Creation upheld her complaint on the basis that it didn’t provide sufficient details to Miss B to 
help with the fraud claim and this caused delays. It said that this was resolved by the 
accounts being closed.
Our investigator noted from a recent copy of Miss B’s credit record that one account was still 
showing and with a default. He recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Creation be 
required to remove this entry and compensate Miss B £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Miss B agreed with this resolution, but Creation didn’t respond so the complaint was passed 
for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in the final response letter of 2 June 2021 Creation stated that its fraud 
department would be contacting Miss B about the next steps. And on 6 September 2021 a 
letter was sent to Miss B stating that the accounts referred to had been closed. And that “a 
request will be sent to credit reference agencies to remove any data relating to this account 
from your credit file. Please be aware that this may take a few weeks for the relevant agency 
to action.”
Miss B had provided a copy of her credit record from one agency produced on 21 April 2022. 
One of the loans is still showing and with a default. She’s explained to this service the efforts 
she made to contact Creation before she complained.
Given that Creation has agreed to close the accounts and remove the data I don’t need to 
make any findings about the way in which these applications were made. But in the 
circumstances I do think it reasonable that Miss B receives compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to her and that Creation now takes the action it’s agreed to.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd:
1) To remove the reported information to credit reference agencies about all these 
loans.
2) To pay Miss B £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3516545
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that he wasn’t provided with any information when he entered into an 
agreement with creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T purchased a laptop from a merchant and entered into a credit 
agreement with Creation. Mr T chose the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) option, which meant 
that if he paid for the laptop in full by 20 September 2020, he wouldn’t have to pay any 
interest.
Mr T has said that he tried several times to contact the merchant to find out how to make 
payments because he hadn’t been provided with any paperwork. In October 2020 Mr T 
noticed an unexpected direct debit on his account, so he contacted the merchant again and 
his complaint was directed to Creation.
In response, Creation said that online statements had been made available to Mr T to 
remind him of the BNPL period. It said that because it hadn’t received payment in full by the 
required date, interest became applicable and a direct debit was initiated to collect monthly 
repayments from Mr T’s bank account.
Mr T was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she wasn’t satisfied that that the emails sent 
by Creation had been successfully sent, because the email address held by Creation was 
wrong.  The investigator said that Creation had failed to follow its own procedure for 
undelivered emails. She said she thought that Mr T would’ve paid I full if he’d been 
contacted before the end of the BNPL period and said Creation should refund the interest 
applied to the account ad allow Mr T to pay the remaining balance in full.
Creation didn’t agree. It said that Mr T had provided his email address during the application 
process and that he should’ve noticed if it was incorrect. Creation also said that because its 
statement reminder emails were automatically generated, it wouldn’t have received a 
notification if the email was undelivered.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the records held by Creation. I can see that when Mr T applied for the credit 
agreement his email address was recorded and it was noted that his preferred method of 
contact was email.
I can also see that Creation sent two emails to Mr T before the BNPL period ended. The 
emails contained a link to Mr T’s online account which (if activated) would have allowed him 
to view his statement.
Mr T has said that the email address used by Creation was incorrect. He believes that the 
salesperson wrote it down incorrectly. Mr T said that he never received any emails from 
Creation.
This service asked Creation whether it had received notification that the emails sent to Mr T 
were undelivered and what its procedure was in those circumstances.
Creation said that if an email was returned undelivered, its procedure was to send a letter or 
make a telephone call.
This service sent an email to the email address used by Creation for Mr T and it was 
returned as undelivered.
Although Creation has said that it couldn’t see from its records that any of the emails sent to 
Mr T had been returned as undelivered, I think it’s likely that all of the emails were returned 
as undelivered. I can’t see that Creation tried to write to Mr T or contact him by telephone, in 
line with its own procedure.
I’ve taken account of what Creation has said about Mr T being responsible for checking that 
the information on his application was correct. I cant be certain of whether the salesperson 
owed the screen to Mr T throughout the application. If Mr T had seen that his email address 
had been recorded incorrectly, I think he would’ve brought this to the attention of the 
salesperson at the time.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m not satisfied that the emails from Creation were successfully 
sent to Mr T. I think it’s likely that Mr T would’ve paid in full before the end of the BNPL 
period if he had received the emails and accessed his statements. I’ve seen evidence that 
Mr T had sufficient funds to pay in full as at September 2020. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should remove all interest from Mr T’s account and allow him to 
pay the outstanding balance in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3521279
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S complains about a decision by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) not to 
uphold a claim she made to them about goods not being delivered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with this type of running credit, it 
might be possible to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This section 
says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to 
claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Creation haven’t provided much evidence here. I’ve seen a copy of their final response to 
Mrs S in which they accept that the goods were ordered and that Mrs S disputed delivery 
with the supplier. They say in that response that the supplier was satisfied there was enough 
evidence the delivery was made but Creation haven’t provided that evidence.
Mrs S has demonstrated she completed a denial of receipt form and she’s been prepared to 
escalate her complaint to this service. On balance, I’m persuaded there is sufficient evidence 
that Mrs S didn’t receive the S7 tablet she paid for.
Putting things right
Creation should refund any money and interest Mrs S has paid towards the purchase and 
they should add 8% interest to any refund as Mrs S has been deprived of that money.
They’ll need to remove that item from her running account credit agreement and ensure any 
reports they have made to her credit file in relation to that purchase are removed.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund any money Mrs S has paid towards the purchase and add 8% simple interest 
per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund any interest accrued on that purchase and add 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. Remove any interest accrued but not paid.

Remove the item from Mrs S’s running account credit agreement and ensure any 
reports made to her credit file in relation to that purchase are removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3521468
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a car he acquired in October 
2020, using a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
Mr B acquired a used Mercedes car in October 2020, using a hire purchase agreement. The 
cost of the car was £13,850, and of this, Mr B borrowed £10,033 over 60 months. The 
monthly cost was £224.04. The car was around five and half years old and the mileage was 
recorded as 21,790 at the point of sale. 
Mr B said that problems began to arise with the car immediately after he acquired it. In 
summary, Mr B told us that the passenger-side indicator light on the mirror, and the steering-
wheel functions including the horn, didn’t work, the tread on the nearside rear tyre was close 
to the legal limit, the internal screen didn’t work, there was water ingress to the car, and a 
bonnet malfunction message was showing on the dashboard. 
Further issues were identified when the car was looked at by a mechanic – there were 
problems with the windscreen and the back seat wasn’t properly secured.
These issues were repaired in March 2021, although Mr B was not reimbursed in full by the 
dealership – it contributed £262. Mr B paid £423.94 on top of that to get the repairs done, as 
well as a further £186 for reports on the car – so the cost to Mr B was £609.94 in total. Mr B 
was unhappy that he had to pay for these repairs. 
Mr B then told us that two months later, in May 2021, the car had a serious oil leak. Mr B 
took the car to a local garage and the mechanic noted the fault as an excessive amount of 
oil in the coolant expansion tank and oil leaking from the coolant expansion cap. The 
mechanic suspected a faulty oil cooler. The car has been rendered inoperable and Mr B now 
wishes to reject it.
Creation said that it didn’t think the current problem was there at the point of sale, and 
therefore it didn’t consider itself responsible for it.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld, and proposed compensation for Mr 
B. Creation didn’t respond at first, so the complaint was passed to me for review. Creation 
then twice said it was awaiting comments from the dealer. But despite further contact from 
our investigator, Creation has not provided any further evidence or information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Because Creation supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, it’s responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and there’s an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable – that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was around five and a half years old. And the price was lower 
than that of a new car. So it’s reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered 
a degree of wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and 
maintenance sooner than a newer car. 
I’ve taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (“CRA”). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they don’t conform to contract – a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasn’t resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming – that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr B provided about the sequence of events. The first 
faults occurred almost immediately after Mr B took delivery of the car, but he didn’t, at that 
point, reject the car, so I am not considering the short term right to reject under the CRA 
here. 
Mr B provided invoices for two reports he obtained, costing £186, and invoices for repairs 
(relating to the initial faults) costing £685.94, so he paid out £871.94 in total. Mr B confirmed 
the supplying dealer made a part contribution of £262 to the repairs, reducing his outlay to 
£609.94. Mr B also provided copies of several email exchanges with the dealer in relation to 
the initial faults, along with supporting photographic evidence. Mr B has not proceeded with 
repairs in relation to the oil leak, and now wishes to reject the car.
I also have a copy of the independent report on the car that was commissioned by Creation. 
As I noted above, Mr B sent in a report from a local garage regarding the oil leak, with the 
suspected cause being a faulty oil cooler. The independent report goes into much more 
detail about the car, but it confirms the oil leak. It goes on to say that confirmation of the 
exact cause of oil entering the cooling system is not fully possible given the limits of the 
inspection, but “oil cooler failure and cylinder head gasket failure are strong possibilities 
given the very large quantity of oil ingress to the cooling system.”
Creation didn’t think the oil leak was its responsibility – the independent report said that 
“There is no suggestion that the current issue with engine was present the point of purchase 
as the vehicle couldn’t have driven 6000 miles plus since the date of purchase, therefore the 
current issues engine has obviously developed after the point of sale”. The report also noted 
that the car had passed an MOT around the date of purchase. 
I accept that Mr B had had the car for seven months when the oil leak occurred, and had 
driven just under 6,500 miles in that time. And the car was not new. But as I explained 
above, when looking at whether the car was of satisfactory quality I need to consider the 
durability of the components. 
The independent report doesn’t suggest what might have led to the possible failure of the oil 
cooler or the cylinder head gasket. Our investigator asked Creation for further information on 
this point, but Creation didn’t respond. In the absence of any additional information, I’ve 
considered the expected lifespan of these parts, and I’ve seen no evidence from either the 
reports, or the age and mileage information about the car, to suggest that they were likely to 
have simply reached the end of the expected lifespan. What occurred seems to have been a 
significant fault and not something a reasonable person would expect in a car of this age and 
mileage. And I’ve not seen anything to make me think that Mr B caused or contributed to the 
fault occurring.
I’ve also kept in mind the earlier problems with the car, which were repaired in March 2021. 
As I noted above, Mr B sent in copies of several email exchanges with the dealer over the 
course of the period between him acquiring the car and the repairs being carried out – the 
first of these was almost immediately after he got the car. In summary, the repairs involved a 
problem with a clock spring, a tyre, a wing mirror, and water ingress into the car. The 
evidence suggests that these faults were present when Mr B acquired the car – again there 
is no evidence to suggest that Mr B caused or contributed to their occurrence.
So taking all of this into account, I don’t consider this car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale and therefore I am upholding Mr B’s complaint.
Mr B said that he wants to reject the vehicle. It’s not clear from the evidence I have that 
repairs will resolve the issues to bring the car to a satisfactory quality, and I think it’s likely 
that they would take longer than Mr B ought reasonably have to wait, especially as he has 
not been able to use the car for some time. As a result I don’t consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Creation to get the repairs carried out, or to expect Mr B to have to 
wait for them.
I’ve also taken into account that repairs had already been carried out on this car, for which I 
consider Creation liable. I’ve concluded that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale, and in those circumstances, the CRA gives Mr B a final right to reject if a repair or 
replacement hasn’t resulted in the car subsequently conforming – that is, it then being of 
satisfactory quality. This doesn’t give Creation a further chance to repair different faults that 
also render the car of car of unsatisfactory quality. So I am satisfied that Mr B is entitled to 
reject the car. This means that Creation should end the agreement and collect the car at no 
cost to Mr B.
I also note that Mr B said he hasn’t been able to use the car since 1 June 2021 because of 
the problems with it – he was advised not to drive the car with the oil leak. (I can see from 
the independent report that jumpstarting the car didn’t result in the engine turning over 
during the inspection, and that the car ‘carried clear indications that it had been immobile for 
some time’.) I think it was reasonable for Mr B to stop using the car at this point, and 
therefore I think it fair that Creation should refund any monthly payments Mr B has made 
under the hire purchase agreement from 1 June 2021 onwards. 
I also think that, although Mr B was able to use the car from 23 October 2020 to 12 March 
2021, there were a number of issues - as I’ve explained above – that meant the car wasn’t 
performing as it should have done, so I think it’s fair to require Creation to refund a 
proportion of the monthly payments Mr B made during this period. I consider a ten percent 
refund of those payments fairly reflects the impaired use.
I’ve set out above the amount Mr B paid for the repairs to the car in March 2021. As I’ve 
concluded that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, I consider it fair 
that Creation should refund the amount Mr B paid out. In addition, Mr B has experienced 
distress and inconvenience as a result of the problems with the car and I consider it fair for 
Creation to pay a further amount of £175 to reflect this.
Putting things right
Creation should:

End the agreement with nothing further to pay.

Collect the car (if this has not been done already) at no further cost to Mr B.

Refund Mr B’s deposit/part exchange contribution of £3,817.

Refund all monthly payments Mr B made under the hire purchase agreement from 1 
June 2021 to the date to the date the compensation is paid.

Refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr B made under the hire purchase agreement 
between 23 October 2020 and12 March 2021.

Refund £609.94 in relation to the repairs carried out in March 2021.

Pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date Mr B paid them to the 
date compensation is paid.

Pay £175 for the inconvenience Mr B experienced due to the faults with the car.

Remove any adverse information from Mr B’s credit file (if any has been added).
*if Creation considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr B a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr B’s complaint and I direct 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to compensate Mr B as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3535505
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has charged interest as he 
hadn’t paid off his balance before a ‘buy now pay later’ (BNPL) promotional period ended.
What happened
Mr F entered into an agreement with Creation in July 2020 to acquire goods from a third-
party supplier. The purchase price was £359 but Mr F took a promotional offer of 12-month 
BNPL. This meant if he paid the balance before the end of the 12-month period he wouldn’t 
pay any interest. But after the 12-month period ended if he hadn’t settled the balance, he’d 
be charged interest until the balance was settled.
Mr F said he’d the money to settle the balance, but Creation failed to tell him when the 
payment needed to be made. As Mr F didn’t pay the balance until August 2021 Creation 
have asked him to pay the accrued interest. Mr F complained to Creation.
Creation said they’d sent statements to Mr F in May and June 2021 and that as he hadn’t 
settled the balance within the agreed 12-month period the interest was payable.
Mr F wasn’t happy with Creation’s response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Creation had acted fairly and reasonably in charging interest as Mr F 
hadn’t settled the BNPL account until after the 12-month period had ended. Mr  F didn’t 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’m not upholding this complaint. I’ll explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened considering the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I can see why Mr F is upset as he said he’d set aside the money to settle the BNPL so that 
he didn’t incur any interest charges, and he’d have done this if Creation had said when the 
payment needed to be made. 
While I empathise with the position Mr F finds himself in, for me to say Creation must do 
something different I must first be satisfied that they’ve done something wrong. I can’t see
that they have here which is why I won’t be asking them to do anything else.
Mr F acquired the goods in July 2020, and he said he was aware that he’d 12 months from 
then to settle the balance. But expected Creation to let him know when the payment was 
due. In acquiring the goods, I’ve considered that Mr F would have needed to agree to the 
BNPL terms and conditions when signing the agreement he’d with Creation.
I can see that the BNPL period ended in July 2021, but Mr F didn’t make the payment of 
£359 until August 2021. And as this was after the end of the BNPL period interest would be 
charged until the account was settled. And I can see Creation have asked Mr F to pay the 
accrued interest. In reaching my decision  I need to determine whether Creation did enough 
to notify Mr F of the terms of the BNPL period. And I’m satisfied they did.
Mr F said he’d been sent a payment reminder in January 2021 by Creation, but this had 
been too early for him to make the payment. But I think this would have made Mr F aware 
that a payment needed to be made, and when this would be. Creation said they also sent 
Mr F statements to his online account in May and June 2021 and that these did warn of the 
BNPL period coming to an end. 
Mr F said he couldn’t remember the online account details, he said he’d tried to find the 
details by checking Creation’s website, but without success, so he hadn’t seen any 
statements, which I’ve no reason to doubt. And I also accept Mr F had every intention of 
settling the balance before the end of the BNPL period. 
But I can’t say Creation have done anything wrong as Mr F has confirmed that they told him 
about his BNPL plan in January 2021, and sent statements informing him about his BNPL to 
his online account. And I can’t hold Creation responsible for Mr F not accessing them. 
Overall, I think it’s likely that Creation made Mr F aware that he’d to pay off the full cash
price of his goods within the 12-month period, if he wanted to avoid any interest being
added to his account. As he didn’t make his payment within the BNPL period I don’t think 
Creation has acted unfairly or unreasonably by asking Mr F to pay the accrued interest.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3538928
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr B under a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer 
Finance that he signed in March 2021. He complained to the dealer about some issues with 
the car and the dealer repaired the car in April, May and June 2021, including replacing a 
fuel injector. There were still issues with the car in September 2021 but the dealer said that 
the warranty had expired so Mr B paid a garage to repair the car. It recommended that the 
injectors should be tested as the car may need new injectors. Mr B complained to Creation 
Consumer Finance about the car in November 2021 but it rejected his claim because it said 
that he’d paid for repairs that weren’t authorised by the dealer so it couldn’t inspect the car to 
establish that the issues were present at the point of sale.
Mr B wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He said that it seemed likely that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and he recommended that Creation 
Consumer Finance should: repair the fuel injectors on the car; refund the amounts that Mr B 
had paid for repairs to the car; and pay him £150 for any distress or inconvenience that he’d 
been caused.
Creation Consumer Finance said that it had sent our investigator’s findings to the dealer and 
would respond with the dealer’s opinion. No further response has been received and Mr B 
says that the dealer has stopped trading. He also says that the problems with the car 
continue and he’s concerned that he may be doing more damage while driving it.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Creation Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was 
of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the 
age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;

the car that was supplied to Mr B was about four years old, had been driven for 
52,378 miles and had a price of £10,995;

satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time – but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;

the dealer’s work history report shows that Mr B returned the car to the dealer in April 
2021 – about six weeks after it was supplied to him – because it was shuddering 
when starting so it replaced the fuel filter and put in an injector additive and it said 
that the car would need a new injector if that didn’t fix the problem; 

the work history report shows that an injector was replaced in May 2021 but the car 
was still juddering between second and third gears so an injector cleaner was added 
in June 2021;

Mr B returned the car to the dealer in September 2021 because he was still having 
issues with it but the dealer said that the warranty had ended;

Mr B took the car to another garage and it replaced the battery, the glow plugs and 
the alternator to try to fix the mis-fire and juddering issues but they continued – the 
total charge for the repairs by the garage in September and October 2021 was 
£999.37;

the garage recommended that the injectors should be tested as the car might need 
new injectors and Mr B then complained to Creation Consumer Finance;

it’s clear from the dealer’s work history report that there was an issue with the car 
juddering soon after it was supplied to Mr B and the dealer replaced an injector but 
the issues continued - Mr B says that there are still problems with the car and a 
garage has recommended that that the injectors should be tested as they might need 
to be replaced;

I consider that the issues that Mr B has had with the car cause it not to have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him;

the dealer has repaired the car but the repairs haven’t dealt with the issues so I find 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to arrange and 
pay for the issues that are causing the car to judder and mis-fire to be repaired;

when the dealer’s repairs hadn’t been successful and it said that the warranty had 
expired, I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Mr B to take the car to another 
garage and I also consider that it was fair and reasonable for it to replace the battery, 
the glow plugs and the alternator to try to deal with the issues with the car;

Creation Consumer Finance says that Mr B paid for repairs that weren’t authorised 
by the dealer so it couldn’t inspect the car to establish that the issues were present at 
the point of sale – but the dealer’s work history report shows that the car was 
juddering and mis-firing so I consider that there’s enough evidence to show that it’s 
more likely than not that those issues were present when the car was supplied to 
Mr B;

I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to also pay 
£999.37 to Mr B to reimburse him for the payments that he made to the garage for it 
to repair the car – and I consider that it should also pay interest on those payments; 

Mr B has been able to use the car and the garage’s invoice records its mileage as 
59,193 in October 2021 so the car had been driven for almost 7,000 between March 
and October 2021 – and I’m not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to refund to Mr B 
any of the payments that he’s made under the hire purchase agreement; and

these events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Mr B and I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to pay him £150 
to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Creation Consumer Finance to take the actions 
described above and as set out below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr B’s complaint and I order Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:
1.
Arrange and pay for the issues that are causing the car to judder and mis-fire to 
be repaired.
2.
Pay £999.37 to Mr B to reimburse him for the payments that he made to the 
garage for it to repair the car.
3.
Pay interest on those payments at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
4.
Pay £150 to Mr B to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that he’s 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation Consumer Finance to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 3 above. Creation Consumer Finance must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax it’s deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3543560
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) did not support him when he 
was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card from Creation with a limit of £750. In September 2019, the balance 
was £809.08. Mr B contacted Creation in September 2019 to say he was in financial 
difficulty. Creation agreed to put a ‘hold’ on his account – no payments were needed. They 
sent him a financial statement to complete. Interest and charges continued to be applied. In 
February 2020, a payment plan was agreed for eight months, with monthly payments agreed 
at £44.49. No fees were to be charged but interest was. In June 2020, Mr B broke the plan – 
as he had paid £40 a month, not £44.39. In July 2020, Creation agreed to a payment plan to 
December 2020 – requiring payments of £23.69 a month. Interest was zero with no charges 
or fees. Mr B made the payments. A further plan was agreed in December 2020. In January 
2021, the debt was sold to a debt collection agency (DCA).
Mr B complained that Creation didn’t support him when he needed help. His income was 
affected due to redundancy, and then by the pandemic. He said Creation had continued to 
charge interest and fees – which accounted for the whole of the debt. They’d hassled him 
with phone calls. He said he asked Creation to transfer his debt to a DCA but they’d refused. 
He said the debt should be written off. 
In December 2020, Creation said Mr B’s account had been on hold since January 2020 
while they waited for some financial information from him. They said they couldn’t agree to a 
payment holiday (under the pandemic support scheme) – as his account was in arrears. In 
March 2020, they agreed an eight-month hold. But Mr B hadn’t made the payments needed 
for that arrangement. In July 2020, an interest free arrangement was agreed until December 
2020 – which they then offered to extend if he was still in difficulty. They refunded three 
overlimit fees applied between May 2020 and July 2020 as a gesture of goodwill. Creation 
said they were entitled to charge interest in line with the terms and conditions. On Mr B’s 
complaint about the calls they’d made, they apologised and paid compensation of £50.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt that Creation didn’t act reasonably. 
She thought it was clear that Mr B was in financial difficulty in September 2019 – and so 
Creation should’ve helped him from that date – with a zero interest and fees arrangement, 
rather than later, in July 2020. She could see from Mr B’s statements that he incurred late 
payment and overlimit fees from January 2019 – so that indicated he was in difficulty. When 
he called Creation in September 2019, Mr B completed a financial statement on the phone, 
but Creation then asked him for a benefit entitlement letter. In December 2019, Mr B asked 
that his account be transferred to a DCA, but they refused to do that. He told them he’d 
returned to work. Creation asked for a financial statement again and sent him one. In March 
2020, Creation agreed a payment plan but Mr B didn’t make the necessary payments – it 
needed £44.49 each month and he paid £40. Because of the arrears, Creation couldn’t 
agree to a payment holiday under the Covid-19 support scheme. 
In July 2020 – they agreed a payment plan with payments of £23.63 a month, and Mr B 
made these from then on. The plan was interest free. Our investigator couldn’t see why 
Creation had insisted on receiving a financial statement from Mr B in September 2019 – 
when at other times, they’d completed one on the phone. She asked Creation for more 
information about why that was the case, but they hadn’t responded. She said that Creation 
should refund interest and fees from September 2019. And Creation should pay 
compensation of £75.
On the matter of the calls from Creation, she said they’d responded to Mr B’s complaint 
about that in October 2019 – and Mr B hadn’t referred that complaint to us within six months 
of that date, so that wasn’t something we could look at under our rules.
Mr B agreed with our investigator’s view. Creation didn’t agree. They said their process was 
to ask Mr B for proof of income, and Mr B didn’t provide that. And until he did, they couldn’t 
agree a financial difficulties arrangement – and so, in line with our process, Mr B’s complaint 
was passed to me to look at.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complained about calls. But I note that our investigator said that wasn’t something we 
could look at. Given Mr B has accepted the investigator’s view on this, I don’t propose to 
comment on this aspect in my decision. Instead I shall deal with - whether Creation 
should’ve given him more financial support in September 2019 when he first called them 
about his circumstances.
Businesses have an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically. The 
Financial Conduct Authority’s guidance on this is:

A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.

Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one 
or more of the following: 
-
considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges
-
allowing deferment of payment of arrears
-
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time
-
Where a customer is in default or in arrears difficulties, a firm should allow 
the customer reasonable time and opportunity to repay the debt.
And so – I’ve looked at Mr B’s complaint with this guidance in mind.
I can see from Mr B’s statements that in September 2019, he was over his credit limit. And 
before that, he went over his limit every month in 2019 and incurred late payment and 
overlimit fees every month. So – that does suggest he was struggling. I can see he 
contacted Creation in September 2019 and asked for their help as he had lost his job.  
Creation completed a financial statement on the phone and as a result, placed the account 
on ‘hold’ – so no payments were needed. But they also asked him for proof of income and/or 
benefits. Mr B didn’t provide that. I can then see Mr B contacted Creation again in November 
2019 – and said he “was working in the States’ - so he had returned to work. In December 
2019, he told Creation that he ‘was now back at work’. In February 2020, he also told 
Creation he was working again. In March 2020, he said he ‘was working full time’ and could 
afford the lower, agreed monthly payments at that time. It looks like they completed a 
financial statement of income and expenditure on the phone – to be able to work out what Mr 
B could then afford. And then - in July 2020, Creation completed a financial statement on the 
phone - and agreed to a payment plan of £23.63 a month, with zero interest and fees from 
then on.
So – in fairness to Creation - as  Mr B had said he was back at work, I can see why they 
wanted to understand more about his financial circumstances. And I can also see that they 
wrote to him three times in January 2020 and February 2020 to ask for the information. And I 
can’t see that Mr B provided it. 
We’ve asked Creation questions about what happened in August/September 2019. But they 
haven’t responded to our requests for this information. In response to our investigator’s view, 
they said proof of income was required as part of their processes – but that doesn’t explain 
why an income and expenditure form was completed on the phone in March 2020 and July 
2020, but it wasn’t done that way in September 2019.  And so I must make a decision based 
on the information we’ve been given by Creation and Mr B. And where the information I’ve 
got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, I must base my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is – what’s more likely than not to have happened in all of the 
circumstances here, based on the available evidence.
The FCA’s guidance doesn’t set out exactly what firms should do to establish affordability. 
Each firm will have their own processes. We’ve seen that most firms are happy to go through 
a customer’s income and expenditure on the phone, or if a customer prefers – for it to be 
sent out for completion. I don’t know what Creation’s processes were in that regard, and so 
without that, I can’t say for certain that it wouldn’t have been possible to conclude completion 
on the phone in September 2019.
Mr B has told us he was in financial difficulty as he’d lost his job – in September 2019. And – 
his account shows he was struggling. Creation’s notes in September 2019 say he was 
‘unemployed, on jobseeker’s allowance’; and in October 2019 he told Creation he was out of 
work. But equally - later, Mr B said he’d returned to work. But – we haven’t had any more 
information from Creation about this. So in the absence of that, I think it’s reasonable to 
conclude that on balance, Creation should’ve established that Mr B was in financial difficulty 
in September 2019 and placed him on a payment arrangement at zero interest and fees 
from that time – in line with the FCA’s guidance.
Mr B has said he wanted his account to be passed to a DCA to manage. I can see he did so 
in December 2019 and Creation declined. The notes on Mr B’s account don’t say why they 
did that – but I can see that it was sold to a DCA in January 2021. It would be normal that no 
interest or fees would be charged on an account when that happens. And so - I presume he 
is comfortable with that.
I considered whether Creation should’ve agreed to a payment holiday under the support 
measures available as a result of the pandemic. In April 2020, The Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of 
the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Creation, had to put in place ‘payment 
holidays’ on many credit agreements, including credit cards – to help customers who were 
affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three months – 
whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to credit 
reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This support 
was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
But – where a customer’s situation was that they were in longer term difficulty, or had pre-
existing problems prior to the pandemic, then payment holidays under this scheme weren’t 
normally agreed.
I can see that by April 2020 – Mr B was already in difficulty. And so – he didn’t qualify for a 
payment holiday under those arrangements.
Putting things right
On the balance of information, I’m persuaded that Creation should’ve considered Mr B to be 
in financial difficulty in September 2019 when he first called them. And should then have put 
in place a suitable package to help him; including a zero-interest arrangement. They should 
therefore refund all interest and fees from that date to when the debt was sold to a DCA in 
January 2021. If that results in a credit balance, then any overpayments should be returned 
to Mr B with 8% per annum simple interest added from the date of overpayment. Mr B has 
asked that the debt be written off – but I don’t agree with that, as he’s had the use of the 
money. But the remedies I’ve set out do what Mr B wanted – the refund of the interest and 
fees applied by Creation.
I agree that Creation’s responses to Mr B’s requests for support meant that he was caused 
unnecessary stress at a difficult time, and compensation of £75 is also 
appropriate.(CONTINUED)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Refund all interest and fees charged to Mr B’s account from 1 September 2019 to 
when the account was sold to a debt collection agency in January 2021.

If that results in a credit balance, then any overpayments should be returned to Mr B 
with 8% per annum simple interest added from the date of overpayment.

Given that the debt has been sold to a DCA, Creation should ensure the settlement is 
carried out as instructed here.

Pay compensation of £75 to Mr B for stress and inconvenience. When responding to 
this final decision, Mr B should advise if he would like this paid to the credit card 
account, or to his bank account (in which case he should advise its details).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3546846
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has added interest to a purchase he 
made on credit, effectively increasing the price of the item he bought.   
What happened
Mr T has a running account credit plan with Creation, which he can use to make purchases 
from a store, C, up to his credit limit.
In January 2021 Mr T bought goods costing £1,884.99. He paid for the goods using the “Buy 
Now Pay Later” (or BNPL) option available with the credit facility. That meant that, if he paid 
for the goods in full within 12 months, he would pay no interest. If he did not pay in full within 
that time, however, Creation would add interest to his account at the purchase interest rate 
that applied at the time.
Mr T has said that he intended to pay in full for the goods before any interest was applied.  
In November 2021 Mr T received a text message from Creation. It said that Mr T’s latest 
statement, dated 27 November 2021, was ready to view in his online account. The message 
also said that the account balance was £1,884.99, that the monthly payment was zero and 
that the payment due date was 18 February 2022. Under the heading “Payment Due Date 
explained”, the message said:
“If your only purchase is on BNPL, the “Payment Due Date” below is to advise when your 
first Direct Debit will become due. Details of your BNPL and date will have been provided at 
the time of purchase, you will receive a reminder 30-40 days prior to the end date plus 
details are available to you in your Online Account Manager.” 
Mr T says that he was therefore surprised when he later received a message saying that the 
balance on his account had risen to £2,354.34 and that a monthly payment of £123.49 was 
due on 18 February 2022. He said he thought November 2021 message meant that, if he 
paid in full by 18 February 2022, his purchase would not attract any interest. 
Creation said that 18 February 2022 was the date by which Mr T had to make a payment. He 
was not required to make a payment before the end of the BNPL period but could avoid 
interest if he did. It did not accept that the November 2021 communication had been 
misleading. 
Mr T did not accept Creation’s explanation and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr T did not accept that assessment and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The credit agreement explained the BNPL arrangements: 
“If at any time you make Buy Now Pay Later transactions no interest will be charged on any 
payment made during the Buy Now Pay Later period. If you pay the full amount due under 
that Buy Now Pay Later transaction before the end of the Buy Now Pay Later period no 
interest will be payable. If you do not repay the full amount during the Buy Now Pay Later 
period interest will be charged at the rate shown in your credit agreement from the date of 
the Buy Now Pay Later transaction on any amount not paid and you will have to make the 
monthly repayments.”
Mr T says that he did not check his account online; nor did he review the paperwork from the 
time of his purchase to check when the BNPL period ended. He says that the November 
2021 message misled him into believing that the BNPL period ended on 18 February 2022 
rather than on 22 January 2022.
I do not believe that the message was misleading as Mr T suggests. He was told when he 
made the purchase when the BNPL period would end. Payments only became due if he did 
not make payment in full by that date. The message also explained that the payment due 
date was when the first direct debit would be due, and that details of the BNPL end date had 
been supplied separately. I think it was clear that the two were not the same. In addition, the 
message directed Mr T to his online account for further information. That was a clear 
indication that the message did not include information about the end of the BNPL period; he 
needed to look elsewhere for that. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Creation’s information was not 
misleading and that it did not treat Mr T unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take any further 
steps to resolve Mr T’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3551062
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about some issues with a kitchen that he paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited. 
What happened
Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation Consumer Finance that he 
electronically signed in September 2020 to pay for a “luxury bespoke fitted kitchen”. The 
cash price of the kitchen was £17,000 and Mr A agreed to make 120 monthly payments of 
£302.92 to Creation Consumer Finance. 
There were some issues with the kitchen, including with some of the worktops, so Mr A 
contacted the supplier. It inspected the kitchen and arranged for the worktops to be 
inspected by the manufacturer. It said that it would complete any outstanding remedial work 
that was necessary and it offered £500 to Mr A as a goodwill gesture. Mr A didn’t accept its 
offer and complained to Creation Consumer Finance.
It said that the supplier’s offer to complete any outstanding works and to pay £500 to Mr A as 
a goodwill gesture was fair. Mr A wasn’t satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. The supplier then rescinded its offer of a goodwill gesture but said that it would 
complete the remedial works identified in its quality control report.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that that the 
manufacturer had confirmed that the kitchen was fit for purpose and satisfactory. He said 
that he was unable to agree that there had been a breach of contract by the supplier and he 
felt that Creation Consumer Finance’s final response was fair and that it didn’t need to do 
anything further to resolve Mr A’s complaint.
Mr A has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
kitchen installation was wrong, he’s been let down and the kitchen isn’t fit for purpose.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:

Mr A paid for the kitchen using credit, in the form of a loan, from Creation Consumer 
Finance;

in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;

to be able to uphold Mr A’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance, I must be 
satisfied that there’s been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
and that Creation Consumer Finance’s response to his claim under section 75 wasn’t 
fair or reasonable – but I’m not determining the outcome of Mr A’s claim under 
section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;

Mr A clearly feels that there are issues with the kitchen that was installed that cause 
it not to have been of satisfactory quality – particularly with the worktops that have 
more joins than he considers they should;

the supplier has inspected the kitchen several times and it arranged for the worktops 
to be inspected by the worktop manufacturer;

the worktop manufacturer said that it “found the worktops to be fit for purpose” and 
advised Mr A on cleaning methods and materials – it said that the marks on the 
worktops were all within tolerance and part of the pigments used to create the 
finishes of the stone – and it said that “nobody would ever plan a complete L shaped 
piece as it would be vulnerable in transportation and fitting”;

I’ve seen no evidence to show that the supplier agreed that the worktops would be 
fitted with fewer joins or that it has supplied worktops that aren’t of satisfactory 
quality;

I can understand Mr A’s disappointment about the joins in the worktops being more 
visible than he expected and about the pigment marks in the stone – but I’m not 
persuaded that there’s enough evidence to show that there’s been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in relation to the worktops;

the supplier inspected the kitchen and produced a quality control report – it has also 
provided completion pictures of the fitted kitchen and says that it feels that it’s 
professionally fitted and looks lovely – it also says that it will attend to the items in the 
quality control report at no charge even though it’s now outside the twelve month 
workmanship warranty;

when Mr A contacted the supplier about his issues with the kitchen, it said that it 
would complete any outstanding remedial work that was necessary and it also 
offered £500 to Mr A as a goodwill gesture – Mr A didn’t accept that offer but I 
consider that it was a fair and reasonable offer for the supplier to make at that time – 
and the supplier has now withdrawn the offer to make a goodwill payment to Mr A;

I consider that Creation Consumer Finance’s response to Mr A’s section 75 claim 
was fair and reasonable in these circumstances and I’m not persuaded that there’s 
enough evidence to show that it has acted incorrectly; and

I sympathise with Mr A for the issues that he has with the kitchen but I find that it 
wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to require Creation Consumer Finance to pay 
any compensation to Mr A or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don’t uphold Mr A’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3564942
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs F has complained that the car she obtained through a Hire Purchase agreement from
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
As this complaint was initially agreed by both parties at view stage last year, I won’t go
through all the details in full here but will summarise them and then focus on what happened
afterwards with the resolution.
Mrs F obtained the car in October 2020 and reported issues with shaking and vibration at
speeds over 55mph immediately to the dealership (she noticed it on the drive home from
when she picked the car up). They advised her to get the tyres balanced as they were new,
and they would refund the cost. This was done, however the problems persisted. The
dealership then advised her to have the wheels aligned and they would cover the cost, which
she did. But the problems continued.
The car was inspected at a main dealership in November 2020, and they identified the
problem and recommended changing all 4 tyres. Mrs F asked the dealers to arrange this, but
they ignored her requests. Shortly after this the coolant light came on, and when this was
investigated in January 2021, a leak was found, which had caused other problems including
with the steering rack bush.
By now Mrs F was discussing the issues with Creation as the dealership had stopped
replying to her, and when she sent them the main dealer report on these problems, Creation
asked for the dealership to inspect the car. In March 2021 the dealership collected the car
and drove it away, despite Mrs F warning them the car wasn’t safe to drive.
In May 2021 the dealership contacted Mrs F to say they had carried out all repairs on the car
and she should collect it. But they didn’t explain what they had repaired, and after the
problems experienced previously, she wasn’t confident to collect the vehicle and had lost
faith in it. She told Creation she wanted to reject the vehicle, saying that they had the
opportunity to repair the vehicle already when she’d contacted the dealership and been told
to get the wheels and tyres aligned and balanced, so felt she was within her rights to reject
the vehicle.
When Creation declined this request, she raised a complaint. In their final response,
Creation said the repairs had been carried out, so they considered the matter resolved. At
this point Mrs F brought her complaint to our service.
An investigator here looked at the case and gave their view in July 2021 that the vehicle
wasn’t of satisfactory quality, and there was evidence of at least 3 attempts at repair within
the first few weeks. There was also an independent report carried out in April 2021 which
identified issues with vibration and shaking when travelling at speed and recommended
further investigation. It said if the problem was evident or developing at point of sale, it would
have been evident within the first 500 miles. There was evidence of Mrs F telling the
dealership about this problem on the drive home from collecting the car, so the investigator
felt Mrs F was entitled the reject the car under the rights provided by the Consumer Rights
Act 2015.
Creation accepted this view, but Mrs F asked for some additional costs she had incurred to
be considered, so the investigator updated their view on 20 August 2021 to include some
additional costs. Creation accepted this updated view on 13 September 2021, and the case
was closed on 15 September 2021 with confirmation that both parties had accepted the
resolution proposed by the investigator.
This agreed resolution required Creation to do as follows:
- Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further owed
- Creation to collect the vehicle without any further costs to Mrs F
- Refund the monthly payments paid, less any usage charge for the mileage travelled
by Mrs F, along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date Mrs F
made her payments to the date the complaint is settled
- Refund of any deposit paid along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date
Mrs F made her payment to the date the complaint is settled
- Refund a total of £206 which Mrs F paid to repair the vehicle
- To pay Mrs F a payment of £150.00 for the trouble and upset this has caused
Her
- Refund the cost of the Road tax for a period of five months totalling £127.08
- Refund the cost of the vehicle insurance for a period of five months totalling £546.93
- Remove any adverse entries on Mrs F’s credit file in relation to this credit
Agreement.
In October 2021, having heard nothing from Creation, Mrs F contacted our investigator to
ask if we could chase them up. There was communication from Mrs F to us and Creation,
and from ourselves to Creation, through October, November, and December 2021, as Mrs F
became increasingly concerned. The impact on her credit file was causing her problems,
and she needed the money back from this resolution to buy a new car. She had never
collected the car after it had been taken back to the dealership in March 2021, so the
business had the car, but weren’t engaging to complete the payments to her or to correct her
credit file.
Finally, in December 2021, after neither Mrs F nor our service had managed to escalate this
and get a response from Creation, Mrs F asked for the case to be re-opened for an
Ombudsman to make a final decision on the case.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2022. I made the following provisional findings:
I initially attempted just to chase through the previously agreed resolution with Creation. As
both parties had already agreed this resolution, but it hadn’t been actioned, this felt the
sensible approach to get things resolved quickly. However, I suffered similar problems in
engaging with Creation, and despite escalating this through agreed channels to them, it took
until March 2022 for the business to respond and to begin resolving things. And when they
did that and made an initial payment to Mrs F, it didn’t include her £6,000 deposit. Creation
emailed Mrs F on 12 April 2022 to say that she had to get the deposit back from the
dealership herself, not from them.
I emailed Creation to confirm this wasn’t the agreed resolution and it was their responsibility
to give Mrs F her deposit back, and that I would complete a final decision to confirm this. But
in the meantime, Mrs F has gone to the dealership and managed to get the deposit back
from them. She was extremely upset however at having to do this, and the fact that it had
taken 7 months from the case being agreed at our service, for her to get the compensation
she was due.
This had caused her financial difficulties during this time period, and a lot of stress at having
to contact us and the business dozens of times to try to get what she was due. She asked
me therefore to consider still issuing a final decision because she had suffered far more
distress and inconvenience since the initial view which had been agreed, and she said she
also didn’t think her credit file had yet been corrected.
I have investigated the complaint itself and agree entirely with the view issued from our
service that the car was not of satisfactory quality, and Mrs F was entitled to reject it. All the
evidence shows that the car had issues with shaking and vibration, along with, and possibly
linked to, the coolant leak identified. These issues persuade me the car wasn’t of satisfactory
quality when it was supplied, as they began on the first day the car was supplied.
There were repairs attempted on several occasions from the first day the car was collected,
and it’s clear these repairs didn’t resolve the situation, and so Mrs F was entitled to reject the
car based on her rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015. Additionally, she hadn’t
authorised the further repairs; Creation had asked the dealership to collect the car to
investigate the problems, but there hadn’t been an agreement to repair any issues, so the
fact the dealership decided to do this isn’t relevant to this complaint.
I’m also in agreement with the bulk of the resolution that was proposed and agreed by both
parties at the time in July/August 2021 as detailed above.
It’s clear however the Mrs F has suffered considerable further distress and inconvenience
since that time, in trying to get things resolved. In considering this, I’ve thought about
whether this is just as a result of complaint handling, which isn’t part of our remit to consider.
But I don’t think it is. Creation had accepted that Mrs F was entitled to reject the car in
September 2021 and agreed what they needed to do to put things right. In not carrying this
out, despite agreeing it, they’ve caused Mrs F to suffer further distress and inconvenience.
This isn’t about their complaint handling; it’s about how they’ve dealt with her after agreeing
to end her agreement and compensate her for the car being of unsatisfactory quality.
Mrs F didn’t have the car anymore but hadn’t been paid the money due back to her. Whilst it
appears this money has been paid to her now, including interest, that doesn’t recognise the
inconvenience these delays caused her, and the upset and stress from not knowing what to
do, and if or when she was even going to get her money back and her compensation. It will
also have caused her further distress that our service also couldn’t get any response from
Creation when chasing this up too. She began to feel she wasn’t going to get her money
back, which caused considerable distress.
I think the additional distress and inconvenience caused here is considerable, so my
provisional decision is that I intend to ask Creation to pay her an additional £500 for this, on
top of the £150 they originally agreed to pay in August 2021.
I believe all of the originally agreed redress may now have been paid, but potentially the
credit file hasn’t yet been amended. So, my provisional decision is that I intend to direct
Creation to ensure that all of the below has been carried out:
- Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further owed.
- Creation to collect the vehicle without any further costs to Mrs F.
- Refund the monthly payments paid, less any usage charge for the mileage travelled
by Mrs F, along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date Mrs F
made her payments to the date the money is paid back to Mrs F.
- Refund of any deposit paid along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date
Mrs F made her payment to the date the money is paid back to Mrs F.
- Refund a total of £206 which Mrs F paid to repair the vehicle.
- Pay Mrs F the originally agreed payment of £150.00 for the trouble and upset this
had caused her, plus an additional £500 now to recognise the considerable further
distress and inconvenience described above.
- Refund the cost of the Road tax for a period of five months totalling £127.08.
- Refund the cost of the vehicle insurance for a period of five months totalling £546.93.
- Remove any adverse information from Mrs F’s credit file in relation to this credit
agreement.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I explain above, I intend to uphold the complaint, and I intend to ask
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to follow my directions above.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation did not respond with any comments about my provisional decision. Mrs F 
responded that she agreed with it and my recommendations. 
As such, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and the reasons for them. 
For the reason laid out in my provisional decision and repeated above, I am upholding this 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I instruct Creation to ensure that all of the below has been carried out:
- 
Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further owed.
- 
Creation to collect the vehicle without any further costs to Mrs F.
- 
Refund the monthly payments paid, less any usage charge for the mileage travelled
by Mrs F, along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date Mrs F
made her payments to the date the money is paid back to Mrs F.
- 
Refund of any deposit paid along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date
Mrs F made her payment to the date the money is paid back to Mrs F.
- 
Refund a total of £206 which Mrs F paid to repair the vehicle.
- 
Pay Mrs F the originally agreed payment of £150.00 for the trouble and upset this
had caused her, plus an additional £500 now to recognise the considerable further
distress and inconvenience described above.
- 
Refund the cost of the Road tax for a period of five months totalling £127.08.
- 
Refund the cost of the vehicle insurance for a period of five months totalling £546.93.
- 
Remove any adverse information from Mrs F’s credit file in relation to this credit
agreement.
If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs F how much it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m 
required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3568107
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd will not refund or replace furniture he 
bought using finance from it.
What happened
Mr Y bought a sofa suite from a retailer (‘the supplier’) using a fixed sum loan from Creation. 
However, he is unhappy with the quality. In summary, he says the seats have patches that 
are sinking and discoloured.
The supplier went out of business so Mr Y approached Creation for help under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’). However, it did not uphold this claim based on 
an expert report which concluded the damage to the sofa was caused by misuse rather than 
a manufacturing defect.
Mr Y brought the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into things but felt the 
evidence available pointed to misuse rather than a manufacturing defect as well. Therefore, 
he didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in declining the Section 75 claim.
Mr Y does not agree with this outcome. In summary, he says the furniture has not been 
misused and the expert inspection was done many months after he first complained (due to 
the global pandemic) so his family were using the sofas which has made things worse. He 
says the expert report which Creation arranged is biased and online posts about the furniture 
show it is defective.
The matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows Mr Y to make a ‘like claim’ against Creation for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the furniture. There are certain technical requirements 
that must be in place for a Section 75 claim to be valid and I am satisfied those are met here. 
So I move on to consider whether or not there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (‘CRA’) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is
satisfactory”. To be considered “satisfactory”, the goods would need to meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory – taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability can also be aspects of the quality of goods.
Creation obtained an expert report to assess the condition of the sofa. It concluded that the 
problems with the sofa were due to misuse rather than a manufacturing defect. 
I know that Mr Y says the expert report is not independent – however, although it was 
commissioned by Creation I have no reason to believe that it wasn’t carried out in a 
professional manner. It looks reasonably detailed and is backed up by photographic 
evidence to illustrate the points made. I can see that the particular nature of the damage is 
plausibly explained by what the expert has said.
The report, albeit commissioned by Creation is also all the expert evidence I have. This is 
important because I am not a furniture expert myself. I know Mr Y has said the report was 
not carried out immediately – but looking at the nature of the damage and what the expert 
has said is the likely cause of said damage I don’t think the findings are likely to have been 
different had the report been carried out months before. 
I know Mr Y has referred to online forum posts to support his case. But it is difficult, in light of 
the evidence from the expert, to take this general information from other customers and be 
persuaded that it means Mr Y’s sofa has a manufacturing defect.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr Y – but based on the evidence I have I cannot fairly say that 
Creation was acting unreasonably in turning down his Section 75 claim.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3570569
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about a default recorded with one or more third party credit reference 
agencies, by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), in respect of a fixed sum loan 
agreement (“agreement”) he took out with it in December 2017.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr A purchased some furniture from a company that I will call “B”, which 
was delivered in March 2018. The price of the furniture was £4,615. Mr A paid a deposit of 
£1,386 and ‘financed’ the balance of £3,229 under the agreement subject to this complaint.
Under the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr A undertook to make (to Creation) 
one monthly direct debit (“DD”) payment of £89.69, followed by 34 monthly DD payments of 
£89.69 and then a final one monthly DD payment of £89.69, making a total repayable of 
£3,228.84 (36 x £89.69) at an APR of 0%.
Mr A made 34 monthly payments to Creation of £89.69 (April 2018 to January 2021) before 
cancelling his DD. This meant Mr A still owed Creation under the agreement £179.38 
(2 x £89.69).
Between 16 February 2021 and 2 April 2021 Creation says it sent Mr A (to the address it 
held on file for Mr A and which Mr A had provided it with) seven letters in respect of his 
agreement status.
On 21 April 2021 Creation says it sent Mr A (to the address it held on file for Mr A and which 
Mr A had provided it with) a default notice in respect of his agreement.
Mr A didn’t respond to any of the above letters because he had moved, something Creation 
says it wasn’t aware of in early 2021. And having not received any responses from Mr A to 
its various letters, Creation took the decision to record (in May 2021) Mr A’s agreement as 
being in default with one or more third party credit reference agencies. Creation then 
transferred the debt (for collection) to a third party that I will call “M”. 
On 22 June 2021 M wrote to Mr A at his new address to seek payment of £234.38 (£179.38 
arrears plus £55 in fees).
On 5 August 2021 Creation wrote to Mr A at his new address to seek payment of £234.38 
(£179.38 arrears plus £55 in fees).
Having received one, or both, of the above letters seeking payment of £234.38, Mr A 
contacted Creation. Creation agreed to waive the £55 in fees and to accept from Mr A, in full 
and final settlement of his agreement liability, £179.38. 
Mr A says he understood, on payment of £179.38, that any adverse information that had 
been recorded by Creation with one or more third party credit reference agencies would be 
removed. However, this wasn’t the case. Instead what Creation did was amend the default 
record to show the same as settled/satisfied.
Mr A became aware that Creation hadn’t removed the adverse information recorded with 
one or more third party credit reference agencies when he was refused a remortgage.
Following his remortgage refusal Mr A contacted Creation to ask for all the adverse 
information that had been recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies be 
removed because this had come to be recoded as a result of a simple misunderstanding.
Having not got a response form Creation, or at least a satisfactory one, Mr A referred 
matters to our service in March 2022.
In May 2022 Creation sent Mr A its final response letter (“FRL”). Creation explained, under 
cover of this FRL, why it wasn’t prepared to remove the adverse information it had recorded 
with one or more third party credit reference agencies in May 2021 and which it had 
amended in August 2021.
Mr A’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Creation had done nothing wrong in not removing the default recorded with one or more third 
party credit reference agencies.
Mr A didn’t agree with the investigator’s view and so his complaint has been passed to me 
for review and decision. In disagreeing with the investigator’s view, Mr A said:

he disputes Creation didn’t have his new address especially given the furniture was 
sent by B to his new address and given Creation confirmed (in his call with it in 
August 2021) that it did indeed hold details of both his new and old address

he finds it strange that Creation has only been able to provide templates of the letters 
it says it sent him (to his old address) and not copies of the actual letters it sent him 
(to his old address)

when he called Creation in August 2021 he was advised that paying late, as he had, 
wouldn’t affect his credit rating.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear that Mr A has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr A will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Mr A doesn’t dispute that he failed to make, in good time, what he owed Creation under his 
agreement with it. But he says this was as a result of a simple misunderstanding on his part 
and nothing more. And for this reason, Creation should remove the adverse information it 
has recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies.
I can understand Mr A’s point. But equally financial businesses have a duty to report 
accurately to third party credit reference agencies the conduct of its customers’ accounts. 
And if they didn’t do so, then confidence in what third party credit reference agencies hold 
and share (in particular with businesses looking to grant credit) would be seriously 
undermined. 
So, I’m satisfied that what Creation has recorded with one or more third party credit 
reference agencies, in respect of Mr A’s agreement, is accurate.
I will now address the points Mr A raised in his response to the investigator’s view not 
upholding his complaint.
For various reasons Mr A says he disputes Creation didn’t hold, at the relevant time, his new 
address. But I’m satisfied that Creation wasn’t aware of Mr A’s new address until M advised 
it of it on 26 May 2021. I’ve come to this conclusion based on, amongst other things, 
contemporaneous system notes provided by Creation confirming this to be the case and 
because I find Creation’s submission that M had been successful in ‘tracing’ Mr A, where it 
hadn’t, to be both plausible and persuasive. 
For the sake of completeness, I would also add that just because B held Mr A’s new address 
– for delivery purposes – doesn’t mean Creation would have done so. It’s also my view that 
Creation wouldn’t have needed Mr A’s new address, nor would it have requested it, in order 
to assess/underwrite his finance application. 
Mr A says he finds it strange that Creation is only able to provide templates of the letters it 
sent, and not ‘actual’ copies. However, I can confirm this isn’t unusual. Furthermore, having 
had sight of Creation’s contemporaneous system notes I’m satisfied that it sent the seven 
letters it said it sent between 16 February 2021 and 2 April 2021 and the default notice it 
said it sent on 21 April 2021.
Mr A says that during a call he made to Creation in August 2021 he was advised that paying 
late, as he had, wouldn’t affect his credit rating and that Creation held both his addresses.
Unfortunately, Creation has been unable to provide our service with a recording of this call, 
but this isn’t unusual and isn’t indicative of anything untoward. But I don’t need a recording of 
this call to fairly decide this complaint.
I say this because even had Mr A been advised what he says he was advised I’m not 
persuaded that such advice has caused him any prejudice. In other words, it’s my view that 
Mr A would have still paid Creation what he paid it, when he paid it, even had he been 
advised that the default recorded with one or more credit reference agencies would remain 
but marked as settled/satisfied. I’m also of the view that advising Mr A that it held both his 
addresses, if indeed that is what Creation advised, wasn’t incorrect because in August 2021 
Creation did indeed hold both of Mr A’s addresses. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed, but I’m satisfied that in the particular circumstances of 
this case Creation has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3579262
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”).
What happened
In April 2021 Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement with Creation for a used car. The car 
was three years old and had travelled approximately 35,322 miles. The cash price was 
£37,937. Mr S paid a deposit of £4,000, followed by monthly payments of £588.40. 
In October 2021 with 52,385 miles on the clock, the car broke down and had to be 
recovered. Mr S had the car looked at by a mechanic, who reported: 
“upon my inspection I found that the underside of the vehicle is completely covered in 
engine oil. When the vehicle is turned over it appears to have little or no compression.” 
“When the oil cap is replaced the engine appears to breathe heavily from the left hand 
side. Without a full strip of ancillary components it would be difficult to suggest where this 
is from, although I believe it has a rupture of the cylinder block suggesting maybe a 
broken conrod.”
Mr S complained to Creation that the engine shouldn’t have failed within six months of 
having the car, and that it needed to be fixed. But Creation didn’t uphold Mr S’s complaint. 
They said the car had covered more than 17,000 miles without being serviced, so they 
considered the issue to be due to lack of proper maintenance. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He took the car to a garage 
that specialises in this type of vehicle. After carrying out a compression test on the car, the 
garage quoted for a replacement engine.
After looking into what had happened, our investigator said he didn’t think the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. He felt it wouldn’t be fair to insist Creation 
carried out a repair due to the costs involved. So, he said Mr S should be able to reject the 
car, end the agreement with nothing further to pay, and receive a refund of his £4,000 
deposit.
The investigator said Creation should refund the monthly rental payments Mr S made from 
October 2021, because he hadn’t been able to use the car since then. And he thought 
Creation should pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’d 
experienced. 
Mr S accepted the investigator’s view. Creation didn’t respond, so the case has come to me 
for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S’s complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, I’m satisfied I can 
look into Mr S’s concerns about Creation.
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard that’s applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other 
relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, 
mileage, and history.
In this case, I take into account that the car supplied to Mr S was three years old and had 
covered approximately 35,322 miles. I don’t think a reasonable person would have the same 
standards for this car as they would a newer one with less mileage. I think they’d probably 
expect some parts of the car to have suffered some wear and tear. 
But I also bear in mind that this car cost £37,937 and was a model many consider to be a 
high end, premium brand.  So even though it wasn’t new, I think an average person would 
still expect it to be of relatively high quality. And I think they’d expect to be able to drive it for 
a reasonable amount of time without any major issues.
I’ve seen a copy of the advisory invoice Mr S obtained from the garage, dated 3 May 2022, 
quoting for a replacement engine. So, I’m satisfied that there’s a significant fault with the car. 
The garage recorded the car’s mileage to have been 52,385 at that time. 
Creation say this problem occurred because the car had travelled around 17,000 miles 
without proper servicing. And I’ve seen that the advisory invoice Mr S obtained says:
“After checking the online service history for the vehicle, there is an outstanding service 
requirement for the 42k service which should have been completed at 09/10/2021 at 
42652 miles…”
Mr S says he did have the car serviced – he’s shown us a copy of the invoice. This is dated 
9 July 2021 and records the car’s mileage to have been 38,213 at the time. So, I’m satisfied 
that the car was serviced well in advance of the date and mileage the next service was due. 
For this reason, I’m not persuaded it’s likely that the engine failed due to lack of proper 
servicing. 
All things considered, I find the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to     
Mr S. I say this because I wouldn’t expect this car to need a replacement engine after little 
more than three years and 52,000 miles. I think a reasonable person would expect the car to 
be more durable than this. 
Putting things right
I note that Mr S wanted Creation to fix the car. Although the CRA gives Mr S a right to a 
repair, it goes on to say that he can’t require Creation to do this if the cost of a repair would 
be disproportionate, taking into account the car’s value. So, I’ve thought about whether any 
other remedy is more appropriate here. 
The advisory invoice Mr S obtained from the garage states the cost of a new engine to be 
£11,500.96. It recommends the turbo and injectors are inspected at the time of engine 
removal. It goes on to say that, if these parts are also required, a new turbo would cost 
£2,135.40 and new injectors would cost £415.15 each. And I need to bear in mind that 
repairing the car might also involve other unexpected costs.
Having thought about all of this, I think the total cost of a repair is likely to be 
disproportionate in this case. For that reason, I think Mr S should now be given the right to 
reject the car. This means the agreement will come to an end with nothing further for Mr S to 
pay, and his £4,000 deposit should be refunded.
Mr S has told us he hasn’t been able to use the car since October 2021. He says he wasn’t 
offered a courtesy car, so he had to spend money on other transport. So, I think it’s fair for 
Creation to refund the payments he’s made under the agreement from 18 October 2021, 
which is the date he complained to them.
I think being without the use of a car has been inconvenient for Mr S. And I can understand 
his frustration at having to continue making monthly payments of £588.40 for a car he’s been 
unable to use since October 2021. He’s also had to arrange for the car to be inspected, to 
get this problem resolved. I think Creation should pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience he’s been caused here.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited to:

Collect the car and end the finance agreement, at no further cost to Mr S. 

Refund the £4,000 deposit Mr S paid.

Refund the amount Mr S paid under the agreement from 18 October 2021.

Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.

Pay Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’s been caused.
If Creation consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr S how much they’ve taken off. They should also give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if he’s eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3579632
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that a car supplied to him by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
didn’t have all the advertised features.
What happened
Mr S acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Creation for around 
£19,000 in June 2021. Mr S made a deposit payment of £3,401 and under the agreement, 
he was required to make 59 payments of £341.33 followed by one final payment of £351.33. 
The car was around five years old and had covered around 72,000 miles when it was 
supplied to Mr S. Mr S also separately purchased a warranty for £599. The car was acquired 
from a dealership I’ll refer to as P. 
The same day, Mr S complained to P. He said the car was mis-sold because many of the 
features that attracted him weren’t available or were faulty or damaged. He said he returned 
the car, cancelled his finance agreement and expected to receive a refund. Mr S said P 
didn’t respond. So, he referred his complaint to Creation. 
Creation issued its response to Mr S’s complaint. It said Mr S had an opportunity to inspect 
the car and then made a decision to acquire it. It didn’t uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said he had returned the 
car during the cooling off period, as it had been misrepresented to him. He said P told him 
they were settling the finance, but he didn’t hear anything further. Mr S said he checked his 
credit file and noted that Creation had applied adverse information.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he thought the car had been misrepresented 
to Mr S. He said the dealer had accepted that a number of features that it had listed in its 
advert for the sale of the car were incorrectly listed. He also said Mr S should have been 
entitled to withdraw from the agreement as he exercised this right within 14 days. 
Creation responded and said that Mr S’s right to withdraw from his finance agreement was a 
different right to reject the car. It said that the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) said that 
Mr S couldn’t dispute anything which would have been evident upon inspection, where Mr S 
had an opportunity to examine the car. It also said P had provided Mr S with a disclaimer 
which said the specifications may not be accurate. 
As Creation remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I’ve read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mr S and Creation have raised 
a number of different complaint points. I’ve concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I don’t 
comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about 
it – but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. For this reason, I haven’t commented on our investigator’s findings on Mr S’s right 
to withdraw from the agreement.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is the supplier of the car under this type 
of agreement and so, is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The CRA covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire purchase agreement, there are 
implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. In Mr S’s case, the 
car he acquired was used – so there would be different expectations compared to a new car. 
Having said that, the car’s condition at the point of supply, should have met the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price.
The same day Mr S acquired the car, he says he called P and explained a number of the 
car’s features were missing or faulty. He then says he returned the car and was asked to 
write to P. I accept it’s likely this is an accurate version of events, as Mr S has supplied a 
follow up email from five days after he acquired the car, in which he’s referenced said call 
and said he’s left the car with P. In addition, P in an email to this service, have said that 
shortly after Mr S was supplied the car he contacted them to complain that some features 
weren’t present. And in this email, P reference that Mr S told them he saw the advert on the 
third party website Mr S has referred to. 
In the email, Mr S has said the car had a number of faults with it and that a number of 
features the car was advertised with, were unavailable. He has said the start/stop system, 
the floor mats, the keyless go starting function, the seat lumbar support, the seat cushion 
depth adjustment, heated front seats, electrically folding mirrors, attention assist, sat nav and 
the variable speed limiter, were not features the car was supplied with. He’s said the driver’s 
seat leather had a six inch gash which was hidden by a cover and the cruise control only 
partially worked. 
P say the advert that Mr S has referred to was displayed on a third party website. P say the 
advert on their own website had a disclaimer. I’ve seen a copy of the advert from the third 
party website that Mr S says he saw before deciding to acquire the car. It lists the items Mr S 
has said were not present with the car and there is no disclaimer with the advert. 
Whilst I’ve not seen a copy of the advert on P’s own website, I’ve noted that other adverts 
displayed on their website contain a disclaimer. So, I think it’s likely this disclaimer was 
present on the advert for the car Mr S acquired on P’s own website. The disclaimer says the 
specification listed on its website is for a typical vehicle of this model and year when 
manufactured. It says there may be differences to the specification of the car and asks the 
reader not to rely entirely on it. It asks the reader to check to confirm the features are 
present that will influence their decision to acquire the car, so it meets the readers 
requirements and expectations. 
P have said that Mr S didn’t rely on the advert on the third party website, as he had time to 
inspect the car before agreeing to be supplied with it. They say Mr S didn’t mention the 
advert until some days after he acquired the car. P have also said they didn’t supply the third 
party website with any advert. They said all adverts they supplied carried the disclaimer.
I’ve thought carefully about this and having done so, whilst I take on board what all parties 
have said about the advert, I’m satisfied that it’s more likely than not that Mr S relied on the 
advert from the third party website. I say this because I’m persuaded that Mr S did call P the 
same day, to let them know that certain features of the car were faulty or missing. These 
features were listed on the third party website without any disclaimer and the advert referred 
Mr S to contact P if he was interested – which Mr S says he did. 
P have said that the advert is irrelevant as Mr S had an opportunity to inspect the car before 
agreeing to be supplied with it. However, the CRA says that where goods are supplied by 
description, the goods must be as described. Here I’m satisfied the description is that in the 
advert on the third party website. The CRA goes on to say that goods can be supplied by 
description, even if they are made available for a consumer to see and select. As P have 
pointed out, Mr S did have a chance to see the goods. But P haven’t said that they told Mr S 
about their disclaimer prior to supplying the car to him. So, I’m not persuaded the description 
of the car was accurate and neither am I persuaded that Mr S was told some of the features 
of the car may not be available, before he entered into the hire purchase agreement. 
P have confirmed in an email to our service that some of the features of the car supplied to 
Mr S were missing. These are the keyless go starting function and the heated front seats. P 
have provided evidence that the lumbar support and electronic folding mirrors were 
available. I’ve also seen some call notes between P and Creation taken 10 days after Mr S 
was supplied the car. These say that a diagnostic test has been carried out which showed a 
couple of faults due to voltage and the battery had failed. No further supporting information 
has been provided by either party to suggest any of the other features Mr S complained 
about were missing or faulty. What is clear, is that the car didn’t match the description on the 
third party website, as it had some faults and it had some advertised features missing. And 
so, I’m satisfied the car wasn’t as described and that Mr S was entitled to exercise his right 
to reject the car when he returned the car to P, within five days of being supplied the car.
I’ve gone on to consider what Creation need to do to put things right. 
As I’m satisfied Mr S exercised his right to reject the car, Creation should cancel the hire 
purchase agreement with nothing further to pay from Mr S. It should also remove any 
information about the agreement from Mr S’s credit file, as he only had the car for around 
five days. 
I’ve considered whether Mr S should be charged anything for his use of the car. But given 
that the car was supplied to Mr S with 72,050 miles and he has shown he returned the car 
with a mileage reading of 72,125, I don’t think it is fair or reasonable to charge Mr S for his 
use of the car for only 75 miles. 
Mr S made deposit payments totalling £4,000 towards the cost of the car. The deposit 
payment included the cost of the warranty, which I have not seen a copy of, but all parties 
accept this cost Mr S £599. The finance agreement lists the deposit amount as £3,401, but 
this amount doesn’t include the cost of the warranty. I think Mr S should be refunded the cost 
of the warranty as he hasn’t had benefit of it. P have also confirmed that Mr S made a 
successful chargeback of £2,200. Mr S has also let us know he raised a chargeback and a 
received a refund through that process. So, Creation should refund Mr S the remaining 
£1,800 of the deposit. It should also pay Mr S 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement, to compensate him for not having access to 
these funds.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve outlined above, I uphold Mr S’s complaint. I instruct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:

End Mr S’s agreement with nothing further to pay;

Pay Mr S’s deposit of £1,800; 

Pay Mr S 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement*; and

Remove any information about the hire purchase agreement from Mr S’s credit file.
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3601592
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs W complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) rejected her claim under 
section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of sofas that she believes wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality. She’s also unhappy they’ve recorded adverse information on her credit 
file. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I won’t repeat them here.
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’ve decided to uphold Mrs W’s complaint. I’ll explain why. 
In March 2020, Mrs W acquired sofas through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. 
They were supplied by a third party who I will refer to as M. The goods were originally 
delivered in June 2020 but Mrs W reported they were faulty and parts were missing. M 
agreed to send a replacement within eight weeks. In October 2020, Mrs W received the 
missing scatter cushions but the replacements for the sofas weren’t received. As she had 
difficulty contacting M as they had since gone into administration, she contacted Creation to 
complain. 
This complaint was considered under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. This sets 
out that in certain circumstances, the finance provider (Creation) can be held jointly liable if 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation of the goods by the supplier (M). 
Shortly after taking delivery of the sofas in October 2020, Mrs W complained again that they 
weren’t of satisfactory quality. She reported there was damage to one of the arms and the 
seat cushions weren’t the correct size. Therefore I’ve considered whether there was a 
breach of contract. In doing so, I’ve taken into account the relevant legislation which is the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It says that under a contract to supply goods, there’s an 
implied term that the goods are of satisfactory quality and are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things like the 
description of the goods, the price and other relevant circumstances. Other considerations 
include its fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, 
and durability.
Since the complaint has been at our service, Creation had arranged for an independent 
inspection to be carried out in February 2022. Having read the report, it’s clear there are 
faults with the sofas. It reports there is damage to the arm of the three seater sofa and there 
are manufacturing faults with the seat cushions and interiors as they are the wrong size. On 
that basis, I’m not satisfied the sofas were of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs 
W, meaning there was a breach of contract. Creation don’t appear to dispute this as they’ve 
offered to pay for the repairs, so it’s fair to say they accept they are liable. However Mrs W 
doesn’t want a repair so I must decide what is fair to put things right.
The CRA also provides consumers the short term right to reject the goods (30 days) if it’s not 
of satisfactory quality. Creation considers the date of delivery to be October 2020 which is 
when the last parts of the sofa were delivered. Based on the evidence I’ve seen, within 30 
days of the delivery, Mrs W complained about the faulty sofas. Moreover, she had already 
asked for a replacement in June 2020 which she had expected to be delivered in October 
2020 but this wasn’t received. I don’t find a replacement was provided within a reasonable 
period of time so I can understand why this caused inconvenience for Mrs W. She said she’s 
not willing to accept a repair as offered by Creation and given what has happened thus far, I 
consider it fair and reasonable for Creation to allow her to reject the goods. 
To put things right, Creation should end this agreement with nothing further for Mrs W to 
pay. They should collect the sofas at no cost to her and remove any adverse information 
about this agreement from Mrs W’s credit file.
I must take into account, Mrs W has been in possession of the sofas for quite some time, 
since October 2020. So it’s fair to say she has had use of them, although impaired. In light of 
the same, I consider it reasonable she pays for the time she’s had use of the sofas. The 
CRA allows for this to happen however it doesn’t provide an exact method to calculate the 
same. In such situations, our service’s approach is to consider all the circumstances and 
decide what’s fair and reasonable. Having carefully considered the investigator’s thoughts on 
this, I find his approach was fair. I won’t repeat his calculation here as this has been 
explained already in this opinion. But in summary, as Mrs W hasn’t made any repayments 
towards the agreement, Creation would be entitled to deduct £324.28 from her advanced 
payment of £350 for use of the sofas. This would leave a total of £25.72 to be returned to 
Mrs W.
I’ve also considered Mrs W’s comments about the negative information recorded on her 
credit file and the impact this has had on her existing limits on her credit cards. For the 
reasons already explained above, Creation should remove any adverse information about 
this agreement from her credit file. I must take into account a financial business’ decision to 
lower an individual’s credit score can be due to a number of factors, including but not limited 
to information recorded by financial businesses. In this case, there is insufficient evidence for 
me to reasonably say Mrs W’s credit limit was reduced as a direct result of the adverse 
information recorded by Creation. So in regard to that aspect, I won’t be asking them to do 
anything to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided to uphold Mrs W’s complaint.
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
-
End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs W to pay;
-
Collect the goods at no cost to her;
-
Refund £25.72 to Mrs W;
-
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3606007
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected her claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty furniture.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The chain is in place so I have to address the issue of whether there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
“the quality of the goods is satisfactory”. The relevant law says that the quality of the goods 
is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. 
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The sofa and chair were ordered in October 2020 and were delivered in January 2021. Mrs 
M complained shortly after the furniture was delivered and the merchant sent a technician to 
inspect it in early April 2021. It was inspected a week or so later by an independent company 
paid for by Mrs M.
The merchant’s technician didn’t consider the sofa or chair to be faulty, but the inspector 
used by Mrs M came to a different conclusion. So I have to weigh up two opposing views 
when reaching my decision.
I consider this to be a finely balanced decision, but one of the factors which I consider to be 
relevant is the short period of time between delivery and the issue arising. I can understand 
that over a period of time the leather covering could lose some tautness and begin to sag. 
However this has occurred within a few weeks or months and with little use by Mrs M. She 
has pointed out that due to the pandemic she few if any visitors. In that timespan it seems 
reasonable to expect the furniture to remain much as it did when delivered.
Mrs M’s inspector considers the filling to be inadequate and so it doesn’t provide sufficient 
support for the leather. In turn the merchant takes the view that this movement is natural and 
it needs to be dressed regularly. The report says it is due to normal foam relaxation. 
I have noted the manufacturer’s instructions state that: “Leather is inclined to stretch and this 
will show as creasing to cushion tops. On deep-buttoned furniture this can lead to opening of 
pleats which is not a fault but is normal for this type of upholstery.” So it is reasonable to 
expect some movement. However such movement after a matter of a few weeks seems 
excessive.
I believe the report from Mrs M’s inspector sums up the issue succinctly as follows:
“The main cause of sagging is that the leather isn’t getting the support it needs from the 
foam. Leather does stretch naturally, so it needs a firm foam base to support the weight of a 
person without sagging.
I would suggest the materials that have been used are an inadequate quality or haven’t had 
the correct amount of filling in them from the manufacturer, which explains why the suite has 
failed.
The suite has inadequate poor-quality foam fillings. There are two main reasons behind the 
seams being out of alignment, firstly it could be due to how the leather has now stretched 
from the foam deteriorating or it has simply been mis-manufactured.
In my opinion I would suggest this isn’t within manufacturers tolerance. To confirm the exact 
reason behind the jolt/creak within the mechanism of sofa and the pressure within the lever 
of the armchair, they would both need to be stripped down in a workshop to diagnose the 
exact fault. However, from my visual inspection I can confirm there is a fault with both items.”
While I appreciate the merchant does not trust the impartiality of the inspector it has not 
provided any evidence for that claim and I have no reason to doubt what he has said.  It 
could be argued that the vendor’s technician is not independent. However, I have weighed 
up both reports and I find the more detailed one from Mrs M’s inspector to be more 
persuasive.
Putting things right
Mrs M should be allowed to reject the furniture.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

End the agreement and collect the sofa at no cost to Mrs M.

Refund Mrs M’s total deposit of £1,000; pay interest on this sum at the rate of 8% 
simple each year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund 20% of each monthly payment Mrs M has paid and pay interest on this sum 
at the rate of 8% simple each year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. This reflects the use Mrs M has had of the furniture.

Pay Mrs M £150 to cover the costs of the independent inspection report.

Pay Mrs M £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3609381
--------------------------

Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) rejected her claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs H bought solar panels for her home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mrs H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs H, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. 
Creation said it accepted our adjudicator’s view of the complaint but did not make an offer to 
settle it. Our adjudicator asked Creation to make an offer to settle the complaint, but 
Creation didn’t respond, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
I can see Creation has recently asked for the consumer’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) statements 
despite being told that the consumer is not registered for FIT. As no offer has been 
forthcoming, I have had a final review of this complaint. 
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Creation has accepted our adjudicators view of this case but has not made an 
offer of settlement in line with our established approach to these cases. After several 
chasers, Creation asked for copies of FIT statements when its already been told, they do not 
exist. I’ve seen no reason why Creation has not made an offer to settle the case despite 
agreeing with our adjudicator’s view of this case. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, and as Creation appears to now accept, I uphold this case. In brief, that is 
because the evidence supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and 
Mrs H was not given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be 
self-funding and would equate to an additional cost for her.
So, I think that Creation didn’t treat Mrs H fairly and she lost out because of what Creation 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation – what Creation needs to do to put things right for Mrs H
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs H’s complaint for Creation to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs H from the solar 
panels over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs H is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Creation needs to reimburse Mrs H accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs H by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mrs H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs H’s monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Usually the recalculation would include a reduction for the benefit a consumer has received 
from the solar panel system including payments received from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
scheme. But, as our adjudicator explained, Mrs H’s solar panels were not registered for the 
FIT scheme and she has not received any payments from this scheme. So, in these 
circumstances, I don’t think it’s fair that any FIT payments are included in the recalculation.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs H have the following options as to how 
she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)
the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs H and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs H accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
If Mrs H has settled the loan, Creation should pay Mrs H the difference between what she 
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mrs H has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs H should supply evidence of the refinance 
to Creation, and Creation should: 
1.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mrs H paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs H receives her refund.
5.
Pay Mrs H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
would’ve owed if the system had been self-funding
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Mrs H’s complaint. Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3609695
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to fully honour her claim under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead I’ll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The chain is in place and it is accepted by all parties that the TV which Ms H bought was 
faulty. She reported a fault the day after purchase and the vendor tried to repair it but 
decided to write it off.
The issue is whether a credit note for the value of the TV is sufficient. The faulty TV cost 
£1,999, but when the merchant agreed it was faulty the cost of that model had reduced by 
£400 so it issued a credit voucher for £1,599. 
Mrs B entered into a contract under which she agreed to pay £1,999 for the TV. This was 
funded by a finance agreement with Creation. She made a claim under section 75 in 
February 2021 a few days after the vendor offered the credit note. However, under the 
Consumer Rights Act a consumer can reject faulty goods and request a refund. It is usual for 
the original cost to be refunded subject to any deduction for fair use. In this complaint Mrs B 
had no use of the TV and so she is entitled to a full refund of the cost. 
I note that Creation has not responded to the view issued by our investigator and I can only 
presume it has no further arguments to put forward. 
Putting things right
Mrs B should receive a full refund of the cost of the TV.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

cancel the credit agreement in full. 

return any money she has paid plus 8% annual simple interest from 5 February 2021 
to the settlement is paid,

cancel the credit note should be cancelled, as it hasn’t been used by Mrs B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3613935
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited (CCFL) was of unsatisfactory quality.
Miss M is represented by a relative but I’ll refer to everything that’s been said on her behalf 
as if Miss M had said it herself, to keep things simple.
What happened
Miss M entered into the HPA on 22 May 2021. An engine management light (EML) came on 
not long after and she took it to a third party garage (TPG) for checks. She was told the car 
had defective tyres and needed a new front brake, amongst other things. She contacted the 
supplying dealer (that I’ll call T) in early June. T said these were service issues and asked to 
inspect, saying it would repair any major issues. Miss M was unhappy, she was worried 
about safety and she’d lost faith in the car - and in T. She wanted to reject the vehicle and 
get her deposit back. She wrote to T on 12 June 2021 formally seeking to reject under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) on the grounds the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
About ten days later Miss M obtained paperwork from the TPG that set out the faults it had 
identified and estimated repairs would cost over £1,000. Amongst other things, the TPG said 
rear brake drums were worn above minimum specification and needed replacing, the 
exhaust was leaking and needed work, front brake discs were very close to the minimum 
specification and some tyres were heavily perished and on the legal limit of being 
roadworthy.
Disappointed with T’s response, Miss M complained to CCFL in August 2021. CCFL said 
once the HPA was signed it couldn’t cancel the finance unless major faults were identified 
and the car was unroadworthy. CCFL considered rejection was at the dealer’s discretion and 
T wouldn’t take the car back unless they found a major fault that was beyond repair.
Miss M didn’t think that was fair so she contacted our service and one of our investigators 
considered the evidence. He thought the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality when 
Miss M got it - given the number and nature of faults identified soon after supply. He didn’t 
think a reasonable person would expect so many faults like these so soon in a car of this 
age, price and mileage. He was satisfied that Miss M has a short term right to reject under 
the CRA and she’d exercised this in time. The investigator recommended the complaint 
should be upheld and CCFL should collect the car and refund the deposit of £3,000. Miss M 
had driven the car over 1,500 miles at that stage and he found it fair she should pay one 
instalment for use. He said CCFL should refund all but one of the monthly payments, plus 
interest and pay Miss M £200 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience. 
Miss M accepted the investigator’s recommendations but CCFL didn’t agree and the matter 
was referred to an ombudsman for a decision. In summary, CCFL refers to section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and says T should have had the chance to inspect and 
repair the car but Miss M cancelled two appointments T made. And the paperwork from the 
TPG is an invoice not an inspection report which outlines faults but doesn’t indicate how they 
arose. 
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to uphold the complaint but my 
reasons weren’t quite the same as the investigator’s - and I’d seen some new evidence. I 
issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2022 to let the parties consider my provisional 
findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. 
I’ve set out what I decided provisionally (and why) below and this forms part of my final 
decision.  
My provisional decision
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
CCFL has referred to Section 75 CCA in correspondence but I’m satisfied that Miss M brings 
her complaint to our service because she acquired this car with a HPA. And CCFL, as the 
supplier of the car under the HPA, is responsible for ensuring that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply under the CRA.
What amounts to “satisfactory” quality will vary depending on individual circumstances, but 
it’s generally reasonable to take a vehicle’s age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into 
account. This car was around five years old, cost about £6,000 and had around 44,000 miles 
on the clock when Miss M got it. As such, I think most people would accept that it was likely 
to have some parts that were worn and would need replacing or repairing sooner or later – 
which is reflected in the lower price paid compared to the price of a brand new vehicle.
From the evidence I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that Miss M had concerns about the quality of the 
car within a week or so of getting it. It looks as if she contacted T and she was so 
disappointed by the response that she contacted an advice agency and took the car to be 
checked by a TPG. I’m satisfied that the TPG identified a number of faults estimated to cost 
more than £1,000 to put right. And I think a reasonable person would not expect a car like 
this to need this sort of work so soon after supply.
I find it understandable that Miss M was concerned about the nature of the issues found – 
which involved brakes and tyres, among other things, and might have safety implications. I 
think this was probably all the more troubling given T had provided a 99 point vehicle safety 
check (which included brakes and tyres) dated a few days before supply. And I can see why 
Miss M lost faith in the car - and in T. 
Taking everything into account, I think a reasonable person would consider this car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. I’m satisfied the CRA says Miss M has a short 
term right to reject within thirty days in this situation - there’s no obligation to allow the 
supplier the chance to repair. I think Miss M exercised that right when she wrote to the 
dealer on 12 June 2021 and this should have been accepted at the time. 
CCFL has suggested that Miss M didn’t supply evidence of the faults found when she 
complained. But I’m satisfied (from emails I’ve seen between her representative and CCFL) 
that she supplied evidence from the TPG to CCFL in August 2021. 
CCFL has acknowledged that the paperwork from the TPG confirms faults were found but it 
says the TPG doesn’t say how they arose. Looking at the time Miss M had the car and 
distance travelled when she first complained to T as well as the timing of the TPG’s 
inspection, I think it is more likely than not these issues were present when Miss M got the 
car. I’m not persuaded they’re likely to have resulted from something Miss M did or didn’t do. 
And I don’t think a reasonable person would expect a car of this age, price and mileage at 
the point of supply to have such issues within days of acquiring it. 
In light of my provisional findings above, I’m minded to agree with the investigator that it’s 
fair CCFL should allow Miss M to reject the car now. Paperwork I’ve seen indicates Miss M 
paid a deposit of £3,000. If that’s not correct the parties should let me know in response to 
this provisional decision. I find it fair that she should have the deposit paid refunded, plus 
interest. 
I understand Miss M has continued to drive the car while her complaint was ongoing – albeit 
with some reluctance - as she had no other means of transport. In May this year Miss M told 
us the current mileage is about 55,000. That means she has travelled about 11,000 miles in 
the year or so since the car was supplied. I think it’s fair Miss M should pay for that use. So, 
on the current evidence, I can’t fairly find CCFL should refund any monthly payments. 
Miss M told us she’s had to pay for some repairs to the car during this time. She hasn’t been 
able to supply the relevant paperwork unfortunately. And I can’t reasonably conclude that 
CCFL should reimburse this cost, on the evidence I have. 
I’m satisfied it’s likely Miss M experienced upset and inconvenience because she was 
supplied with this faulty car. Amongst other things, she visited and telephoned T several 
times and she took the car to the TPG for checks. I think it’s probably been a very worrying 
time for her and I find it is fair and reasonable for CCFL to pay £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
I’ve seen nothing to suggest that CCFL has recorded any adverse information about the 
finance on Miss M’s credit file. And Miss M told us she was able to maintain her monthly 
repayments throughout so I don’t think I need to consider whether any amendments should 
be made to her credit record. Again, if that’s not correct, the parties should let me know in 
response to this provisional decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any comments 
and/or new evidence by 7 July 2022. I said I’d review all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision. 
Miss C has confirmed she has nothing further to add. CCFL said it needed more time and 
we allowed until 29 July 2022 for a response. That date has now passed and CCFL hasn’t 
objected to my provisional conclusions or made any further submissions. I see no 
reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional decision in the circumstances. I remain of 
the view Mis M’s complaint should be upheld and it is fair and reasonable for CCFL to take 
the steps below to put things right.  
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited to:- 
1.End the finance agreement and take the car back at no additional cost to Miss M; 
2.Refund the deposit paid of £3,000 plus interest at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement; and 
3.Pay Miss M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If CCFL does not pay the £200 compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Miss M accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple yearly interest on this 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If CCFL considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Miss M how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3616167
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains about the quality of a sofa she acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement
(“agreement”) with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to
anything said and submitted by the third party as if it had been said and submitted by Mrs B.
What happened
In January 2019 Mrs B purchased a reclining corner sofa (“sofa”) from a company that I will
call “H”. Mrs B funded the purchase with an agreement with Creation.
The cash price of the sofa was £1,546.00 and Mrs B also purchased an additional warranty
at a cost of £260.00 – bringing the total cost ‘financed’ to £1,806.00.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mrs B undertook to pay
Creation 48 monthly payments of £37.62 – making a total repayable of £1,805.76 at an APR
of 0%.
In May 2019 the sofa was delivered to Mrs B.
In May 2019 Mrs B says she complained to H that the sofa hadn’t been put together properly
and one of the reclining seats had come with a lever mechanism rather than a button
mechanism.
In April 2020 Mrs B says she complained to H about excessive movement of the middle
(corner) section of the sofa and that this section was misaligned with the rest of the sofa
(both left and right).
In October 2020 Mrs B complained to Creation that, in her view, she had been supplied with
a sofa from H that wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
In November 2020 Creation wrote to Mrs B to ask her to get an independent inspection of
the sofa undertaken and to provide it with a report of that inspection. Mrs B says she didn’t
receive this correspondence.
In March 2021 Creation issued Mrs B with a final response letter. Under cover of this
correspondence Creation said that in the absence of an independent report it wasn’t
upholding Mrs B’s complaint and she could now refer matters to our service for investigation.
Mrs B says she didn’t receive this correspondence.
In May 2021 Mrs B referred her complaint to our service for investigation.
In January 2022 Mrs B got an independent inspection of the sofa undertaken by a company
that I will call “J”. The report produced following this inspection said J had been able to
rectify the excessive movement and misalignment of the middle (corner) section of the sofa
but one of the seat cushions needed replacing due to a manufacturing fault. Mrs B says she
had to pay for this inspection and report.
Mrs B’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld, and that Creation should:

repair, or replace, the cushion identified by J as being faulty

pay Mrs B £75.00 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused
Creation responded to say:

it was unable to get the cushion, identified by J as being faulty, repaired or replaced 
itself, but it would meet the cost incurred by Mrs B in getting the same undertaken 
herself.

it was prepared to pay Mrs B £75 for the distress and inconvenience she had been
caused
Mrs B responded to say, amongst other things:

she didn’t feel it was fair that she should have to go to the trouble of sourcing a repair
to, or a replacement of, the cushion identified by J as being faulty.
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B has confirmed to our service that one of the reclining seats coming with a lever
mechanism rather than a button mechanism, is something she doesn’t require our service to
investigate, so I make no further comment or finding on this particular point.
I would also add that currently I’ve seen no evidence that the warranty (purchased by Mrs B
with the sofa) was mis-sold to her, or unsuitable for her. But I will consider anything Mrs B, in
response to this provisional decision, might want to say or submit on this particular point for
my further consideration.
Creation accepts that Mrs B was supplied with a sofa from H that was faulty. So other than
saying I agree this is what happened, I make no further findings or comment on this
particular point.
I will now turn to what I think Creation should do to fairly and reasonable compensate Mrs B
for being provided, by H, with a sofa that was faulty.
Creation has confirmed that it’s prepared to meet the cost Mrs B incurs in getting the
cushion, identified by J as being faulty, repaired or replaced. I think this is a fair outcome, but
this puts Mrs B to more inconvenience than Creation sourcing a repair or replacement itself
(rather than Mrs B having to do so). And in my view I think Mrs B should be compensated for
this additional inconvenience.
I also think that Mrs B has suffered a level of distress and inconvenience, even before taking
into account the inconvenience of having to source a repair to, or replacement of, the faulty
cushion herself, that warrants an award by me of more than the £75.00 recommended by the
investigator. In coming to this view I’ve had regard to how long matters have been going on
for and that Mrs B hasn’t been able to have the benefit or enjoyment of the whole sofa for
some considerable time because of the faulty cushion.
I also think that given a fault has been identified by J, Mrs B shouldn’t have to bear the cost
of getting the inspection and report from it that she did.
I then went on to explain what Creation should do to fairly and reasonably compensate 
Mrs B.
Both parties responded to my provisional findings to say that they accepted them.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have confirmed that they accept my provisional findings I see no 
reason to depart from them and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

meet the cost Mrs B incurs in getting the faulty cushion repaired or replaced, up to a
maximum of £350 (evidence to be provided by Mrs B of the actual cost incurred)

meet the cost Mrs B incurred in getting an inspection and report from J (evidence to
be provided by Mrs B of the actual cost incurred)

pay interest on the above inspection and report sum from the date of payment (by
Mrs B) to the date it’s refunded (by Creation), at 8% simple a year*

pay Mrs B £150.00 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused
her
*HMRC requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs B asks for a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3626707
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr H into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they weren’t.
Mr H has also complained about breach of contract, in that he says the solar panel 
installation has caused damage to the roof, which has led to water ingress causing internal 
damage at his property. He says that damage is ongoing and getting worse.
Mr H says the weight of the solar panel installation, which included heavy fence posts and 
paving stones used to weigh down the solar panels, is too heavy and has caused the roof to 
sag. He initially complained to the installer which agreed to remove some of the paving slabs 
to reduce the weight of the installation and do some repairs to the roof in an attempt to 
reseal it to stop the water ingress. However, this has not resolved the problem. The installer
has since gone into liquidation.
Mr H’s complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr H and that the installation had caused damage to 
the roof. They said that fair redress would be for the loan to be restructured to make the 
panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-year period. This 
restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. 
Our adjudicator also said that Creation should pay for the roof to be inspected and any 
damage caused by the installation to be repaired.
Creation didn’t agree – in particular with regards inspection and repair of the roof. Creation 
said the problem was not reported to the installer within six months, so the onus is on Mr H  
to provide evidence that the installation caused the damage. Our adjudicator felt there was 
sufficient evidence to indicate that Mr H had done this, and that Creation should bear the 
costs of any further inspections.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, I’ve been asked to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying that, subject to any further information and comments I 
received, I was planning to uphold the complaint along similar lines to our adjudicator’s 
assessment. 
Creation did not respond to my provisional decision within the given deadline. Mr H replied to 
say that when some of the paving slabs were removed and some repairs were done to the 
roof, the installer simply put new felt over the old and failed to notice the wood underneath 
was damaged. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because there was no significant new information for me to consider, this final decision is in 
line with my provisional decision.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision. But I have considered 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the relevant provisions of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015.
The Consumer Rights Act says that a consumer can expect a service (such as installation of 
solar panels) to be carried out with reasonable care and skill. I think it is fair and reasonable 
to expect solar panels to be installed without causing damage to a property. So, if in this 
case the installation has caused such problems the installer (and therefore Creation) would 
be responsible for putting this right by repairing the damage and reinstalling the solar panels 
properly.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this complaint. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr H was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
With regards the leak from the roof, I’m satisfied that Mr H is likely to have contacted the 
installer within six months of the installation to inform it of the problem. The installer seems 
to have inspected the roof and agreed to remove some of the paving stones to reduce the 
weight of the solar panel installation and do some additional work in an attempt to seal the 
roof and stop further water ingress.
The evidence indicates the installer did this as a gesture of goodwill – so it did not explicitly 
accept that the leak was caused by the installation. But it seems from the evidence available 
that the installation was likely the cause – given there is nothing to suggest pre-existing 
issues with the roof, and the water ingress was first noticed within six months of the solar 
panel installation.
I’m also mindful that there is no evidence that a suitable assessment of the roof was carried 
out prior to installation to ensure the roof could bear the weight of the installation. So, I can 
understand why Mr H has significant concerns about the safety of his property. Especially as 
he says he has spoken to a structural engineer who has suggested the solar panels should 
never have been installed on the roof.
In the circumstances I think there has been a breach of contract, in that it is likely that the 
installation was not carried out with reasonable care and skill. So, I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Creation to put things right. I set out below how it should do so.  
Putting things right
Misrepresentation
Creation should put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr H from the solar panels over a ten-year period so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr H is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Creation needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that 
the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared 
with Mr H by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Creation to 
restructure Mr H’s loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr H in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a ten-year period. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr H have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used: 
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, 
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he pays a 
new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr H and he pays a new monthly payment until the end 
of the loan term.
If Mr H accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr H has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest. 
If Mr H has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Creation and Creation should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr H paid each month with the Creation loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr H paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr H receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr H the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Breach of contract
Creation should pay for a relevant independent expert (or experts) to inspect the roof and 
solar panel installation to assess whether or not the solar panel installation has caused 
damage to the roof. And if it has, to prepare a schedule of works to set out what Creation 
must do to repair that damage.
If Mr H accepts this decision, then both Creation and Mr H will be bound by the independent 
expert’s opinion.
This means that if the independent expert says the solar panel installation did cause damage 
to the roof, then Creation must remedy this – by carrying out the necessary work to fix the 
roof including (if necessary) safely removing and reinstalling the solar panels. If the 
independent expert says the damage to the roof also allowed water ingress and that this 
caused damage internally then Creation must also carry out repairs to fix this.
However, if the independent expert concludes that the solar panel installation did not cause 
damage to the roof then Creation will not need to take any further action. If the independent 
expert concludes there was damage caused to the roof by the installation, but this did not 
cause water ingress, then Creation will only need to repair the roof, not the internal damage. 
I’m satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr H first 
contacted Creation that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Creation 
should pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right as I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3630197
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains about adverse information recorded on his credit file by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. 
What happened
Mr H has a loan with Creation but fell into arrears due to the pandemic. Mr H successfully 
applied for a payment holiday under the Financial Conduct Authority’s (FCA’s) Payment 
Deferral Guidance so didn’t have to make payments for three months. In August 2020 Mr H 
asked Creation to consider another payment holiday but didn’t receive a response. Mr H’s 
August 2020 payment was debited from his account despite asking Creation for more time. 
Creation later refunded the payment and put a payment holiday in place to cover August, 
September and October 2020. 
Mr H contacted Creation in November 2020 and explained he was still furloughed. Mr H 
asked Creation for a third payment holiday but says he didn’t receive a response. Creation 
says its advisors told Mr H he could only take two payment holidays without impact to his 
credit file so would need to speak with its collections team. Creation says it also made it 
clear that further missed payments could lead to arrears on Mr H’s credit file. Creation says 
the information was repeated in a follow up call later in November 2020. 
In June 2021 Mr H complained and said it hadn’t been made clear that the arrears on his 
account would be recorded on his credit file from November 2020. Creation didn’t uphold 
Mr H’s complaint and said call handlers had made him aware when he called. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr H’s complaint and asked Creation to pay him 
£100 but didn’t ask it to amend his credit file. Mr H asked to appeal, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The FCA’s Payment Deferral Guidance only allowed lenders to apply payment holidays for a 
maximum of six months. Businesses were free to provide further support, outside of the 
framework given in the Payment Deferral Guidance, based on commercial judgement. In this 
case, Creation approved two payment holidays of three months each. Under the Payment 
Deferral Guidance those payment holidays weren’t recorded as arrears on the borrower’s 
credit file. And I’m satisfied Creation followed that guidance when dealing with Mr H. 
The issue here is that in November 2020 Mr H called back and asked for a third payment 
holiday on the same terms. Unfortunately, there were no option at this point for Mr H to take 
a third payment holiday without impact to his credit file. Looking at the contact notes and 
what Mr H has told us, his income was reduced at this time due to the pandemic and he 
wasn’t in a position to begin making repayments again. I understand that was due to issues 
outside of Mr H’s control. But there was no further scope for Creation to cease reporting 
missed payments on Mr H’s credit file. 
I think it’s also fair to note that Creation says its call handlers confirmed that from November 
2020 missed payments would impact Mr H’s credit file. Creation hasn’t been able to send us 
the its calls with Mr H from November 2020 but has sent us copies of its contact notes. The 
contact notes show Mr H contacted Creation on 6 November 2020 and asked about his 
options. On 10 November 2020 Creation’s notes show it spoke with Mr H and advised it 
wasn’t able to offer a third payment holiday. But a collections hold was put in pace. Creation 
says that during this call Mr H was notified there could be an impact on his credit file. 
Creation says there was further contact with Mr H in November 2020 but no evidence it told 
him his credit file would remain free of arrears. 
I’m sorry to disappoint Mr H but I haven’t found that Creation acted unfairly by recording 
missed payments on his credit file. Creation continued to place collections activity on hold 
and didn’t move to default Mr H’s loan account. In my view, that was a reasonable approach 
given what Mr H had told it about his circumstances at the time. But there was no option for 
further support from November 2020 without arrears being noted on Mr H’s credit file. Mr H 
started making payments in the summer of 2021 and has maintained the contractual monthly 
payment since that point. But Creation’s explained that arrears remain on Mr H’s account 
which is why they continue to be recorded on his credit file. 
I understand Mr H will likely find my decision disappointing, but I haven’t found evidence that 
shows Creation acted unfairly. Our investigator thought Creation could’ve made it clearer 
that it would record arrears when Mr H called in November 2020 and asked the business to 
pay him £100 for the distress caused. I think that’s a fair way to resolve Mr H’s complaint. 
Mr H should note arrears remain on his loan and will continue to be recorded on his credit 
file until repaid. Mr H has the option of contacting Creation to discuss the arrears and 
whether he can reach an affordable agreement to repay them. And, as our investigator said, 
Creation should ensue it treats Mr H with appropriate forbearance when discussing his 
options going forward. 
My final decision
My decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should pay Mr H £100 (if it hasn’t done 
so already) and ensure he receives appropriate forbearance in relation to the arrears on his 
loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3631381
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision taken by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) to 
charge interest at the end of a buy now pay later period on a fixed sum loan agreement 
(“loan”) she had entered into.
What happened
On 27 June 2020 Ms K took out a loan with Creation for a purchase she had made. The sum 
borrowed was £2,615.00.
The loan was provided on a “buy now pay later” basis. That meant if Ms K repaid the loan in 
full before 26 September 2021 then she wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Otherwise, 
interest would be payable.
Ms K didn’t repay the loan in full before 26 September 2021. Therefore, Creation added 
interest of £2,065.00 bringing the total sum repayable under the loan to £4,680.00 –  
repayable (everything else being equal) by 60 monthly payments of £78.00.
On 5 October 2021 Ms K paid Creation £2,615.00, reducing the sum repayable under the 
loan to £2,065.00.
On 11 October 2021 Ms K paid Creation £595.66. This, together with an interest adjustment 
of £1,469.34 for ‘early’ settlement, reduced the sum repayable under the loan to £nil. 
Ms K says she tried to repay Creation £2,615.00 on more than one occasion before 
26 September 2021 via her online (Creation) account but, through no fault of her own, she 
was unable to.
Ms K complained to Creation about what had happened. However, Creation said it was 
satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in its management and administration of the loan 
and it would be making no refund to Ms K.
Ms K referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. The 
investigator didn’t uphold Ms K’s complaint and explained why.
Ms K didn’t accept the investigator’s findings and asked that an ombudsman review the
complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s clear Ms K has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their
entirety. However, I trust that Ms K will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Creation says it sent Ms K two letters, one on 26 March 2020 and one on 26 August 2020, 
reminding her when her buy now pay later period would end. If my understanding is correct 
Ms K says she didn’t receive these. But non-receipt of these letters isn’t material to my 
consideration of this complaint because Ms K doesn’t dispute she was aware of the buy now 
pay later period end date.
I don’t dispute that Ms K may have tried to pay Creation £2,065.00 on 2, 7 and 
9 September 2020 via her online (Creation) account and was unable to do so. But equally I 
can see that on 9 September 2020 Creation emailed Ms K to explain that she could pay by 
other methods, including by credit/debit card (online or by phone) and by standing order or 
bank transfer (from her bank account).
Ms K has provided our service with the reasons as to why she didn’t pay Creation before 
26 September 2020 by other methods, reasons I’ve considered very carefully. But having 
done so, I’m not persuaded these are sufficient for me to find that Creation should have to 
refund her the interest she ultimately ended up paying of £595.66, or any other sum by way 
of compensation.
Regardless of the difficulties Ms K might have experienced in trying to pay Creation via her 
online (Creation) account and regardless of the difficulties she might have experienced in 
trying to contact Creation by telephone, she had been advised in good time (two weeks) of 
other payment methods available to her and it was her choice not to use any of them.
I appreciate Ms K will be disappointed but given what I say above I find that in the particular 
circumstances of this case Creation (in its management and administration of the loan) did 
nothing wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3635687
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs W complains that the furniture she financed through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to finance the purchase of two 
sofas. Mrs W paid a £100 deposit and was required to make 48 monthly repayments of 
around £112. The sofas were delivered in December 2021.
When the sofas were delivered the feet were missing from the two-seater sofa. Mrs W 
contacted the retailer about this and also raised concerns about the colour not being as 
advertised and the sofas looking worn. The feet were ordered and when fitted the fitter didn’t 
agree that the sofas were faulty. 
Mrs W raised her complaint with Creation. Creation issued a final response letter upholding 
her complaint in regard to the missing feet and said these were on order. It said the retailer 
informed it that the goods were as ordered, and the difference in colour could be attributed to 
the pile being brushed in different directions.
Mrs W didn’t accept Creation’s response and raised her complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs W’s complaint. She noted that the sofa legs had been provided 
but didn’t think that Mrs W’s concern about the quality of the furniture had been fully 
investigated. She said having looked at the photographs provided from the time of delivery in 
December 2021 and then in February 2022 the condition was deteriorating with the cushions 
fading in colour and no longer matching the rest of the sofa. She thought the deterioration 
was beyond what could be reasonably considered wear and tear in the timeframe and so 
was satisfied the sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs W had said she asked to reject the sofas within 30 days, and 
she thought it now reasonable that she was allowed to do this. She didn’t think that Mrs W 
should be required to pay anything for usage noting that Mrs W had said she barely used the 
room due to the appearance of the sofas. 
Creation requested copies of the photographs which our investigator had considered in 
reaching her view. These were sent. As a resolution hasn’t been reached on this complaint, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W complained that the sofas she acquired through the fixed sum loan agreement 
weren’t of satisfactory quality. Her complaint was considered under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA). As our investigator explained, Section 75 allows, in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement to have an equal right to claim 
against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. I agree that it is reasonable that the complaint was considered under Section 75.
The complaint to be considered is whether the issues Mrs W has raised regarding the sofas 
meant that the sofas were faulty and / or not of satisfactory quality and as such a breach of 
contract has occurred. I note that the feet were missing from the two-seater sofa when 
delivered and these have since been fitted and so I have focussed on the issue regarding 
the quality of the furniture.
Mrs W was supplied with new furniture and it is fair that she would expect this to last a 
reasonable amount of time before any substantial change in appearance would occur. I note 
the comment about the pile being brushed in a different direction but the sofas are leather 
and so I do not find this relevant. I have considered the care information included in the 
invoice which says that the leather will stretch and crease and that the natural colour 
variations and markings have been explained. However, having looked at the photographs 
provided from when the sofa was delivered and then the condition of the cushions in the 
photographs taken around six weeks later, I do not find it reasonable to consider this as 
normal wear and tear or features of the materials used. The deterioration in the cushions 
results in them looking substantially different to the rest of the sofa. In the short period of 
time Mrs W had the sofa – and noting she raised the quality issue in January, before the 
February photographs were taken – it seems more likely than not that there is a fault with the 
sofa cushions resulting in the sofas not being of satisfactory quality.
Based on the above I uphold this complaint. I find the reasonable remedy is for Mrs W to be 
able to reject the sofas (bought as a suite) and have any payments refunded. I appreciate 
that Mrs W has had the sofas for a period of time but given when she raised her concerns, 
and accepting her comments about her limited use, I do not find it reasonable that she is 
required to pay for any period of usage.  
Putting things right
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Collect the sofas at no cost to Mrs W.

End the credit agreement with nothing further to pay.

Refund all payments Mrs W made along with 8% interest on any refunded amounts 
from the date paid until the date of settlement.*

Remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mrs W’s credit file 
in relation to this agreement.
If Creation thinks that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
this interest, Creation should tell Mrs W how much it’s taken off. Creation should also give 
Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3647261
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that the furniture he acquired through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr W entered a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation on 2 May 2021 to acquire a sofa 
and armchair. He took delivery and says he immediately noticed issues with shading of the 
sofa cushions and was concerned the furniture wasn’t new. Mr W raised his concerns with 
the retailer and a technician carried out an inspection. Mr W says the technician took 
photographs and told him the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose and would get worse. However, 
when the report was sent to Creation it said there was nothing wrong with the sofa. Mr W 
then raised concerns about the sofa sagging and after a second inspection took place he 
was told there was nothing wrong and the issue was wear and tear. Mr W didn’t accept this 
and had a further independent inspection carried out.
Creation considered Mr W’s claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It said 
that two separate inspections had taken place, and these didn’t find the sofa was faulty. 
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought Mr W had a valid claim under Section 75 
due to the sofa not being of satisfactory quality.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the comments in the independent inspection were 
unsubstantiated and noted that Mr W had had the sofa for 10 months at the time of the 
inspection. It also said the inspection report said the claim was invalid in terms of fault 
liability. 
As a resolution to this complaint hasn’t been reached, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W acquired new furniture through a fixed sum loan agreement. This complaint has been 
considered under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and I accept the 
requirements for this are in place. Section 75 sets out that in certain circumstances, the 
finance provider (Creation) can be held liable if there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation of the goods by the supplier. In this case I do not find that the goods were 
misrepresented and have focussed on whether there was been a breach of contract due to 
the sofa not being of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Mr W acquired new furniture and so it is reasonable that he would expect it to be free from 
faults, including minor defects, and be sufficiently durable. Mr W took delivery of the furniture 
on 12 May 2021 and raised concerns shortly after. An inspection report took place on 3 June 
2021 to investigate the shading in the fabric. The photographs contained in the report clearly 
show the issue complained of and the report states that steam could be added to the area, 
but the issue will return. While no fault was identified, the photographs clearly show the 
issue. Given it was thought steam was needed to correct the issue and this was only three 
weeks after delivery (and Mr W had raised the issue immediately after delivery), I think this 
raises concerns about the quality and durability of the fabric. Also noting the comment that 
the issue is likely to return I think this also raises concerns that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality.
The second report took place on 15 July 2021 and considered Mr W’s comments about the 
sofa sagging. The report said that the reported faults were due to natural settlement of the 
product. The report also commented on the fabric saying it had some stretching but that it 
was within normal tolerance.
Mr W has said that the original technician had said the sofa wasn’t fit for purpose, but this 
wasn’t included in the report. He then had an independent inspection carried out on 21 
March 2022. This report said that there was excessive wear and on the arm rests, seating 
and head rest areas. While the report notes this is normal wear and tear, Mr W explained the 
issue was present from the outset and the technician said a new sofa should not be look like 
Mr W’s. 
On balance, the photographs in the reports confirm the issue Mr W raised and given the 
timing of when this issue was raised, I find it reasonable to accept the sofa wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I note Creation’s comment about the independent 
inspection taking place ten months after delivery but the photographs in this show the same 
issue present in the photographs taken in the first report, three weeks after delivery. 
Therefore, I accept the issue was present from the outset and note the independent 
inspector’s comment that this shouldn’t be the condition of a new sofa. Therefore, I find that 
Mr W has a valid claim under Section 75.
Mr W made it clear he wished to return the furniture within the first 30 days, and I think this 
would have been a reasonable remedy. As this didn’t happen, I find it reasonable that Mr W 
is now allowed to reject the furniture (all furniture subject to the agreement as it was bought 
as a set). Given Mr W raised the issues immediately after delivery, I find it reasonable that 
he is refunded all repayments made towards the agreement. 
Putting things right
Because I do not find that the goods are of a satisfactory quality, Creation should:

arrange for the goods subject to the fixed sum loan agreement to be collected from 
Mr W at no cost and at a time convenience to Mr W;

refund all payments made by Mr W towards the agreement, including the £355 
deposit;

terminate the agreement and record it as settled;

refund Mr W £60 for the payment for an independent report;

pay 8% simple interest* on all refunded amounts from the date they were paid to the 
date they are refunded; and

remove any adverse information that may have been recorded on Mr W’s credit file in 
regard to this agreement.
*HMRC requires Creation to deduct tax from this interest. Creation must provide Mr W with a 
breakdown of how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3656994
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) refused his application for 
credit and haven’t provided a sufficient reason why. 
What happened
In April 2022, Mr I applied for a finance agreement with Creation to make a purchase with a 
third-party retailer. The application was subsequently declined. Mr I raised a complaint with 
Creation and wanted to know precisely why it had declined his credit application and 
whether this would impact any future applications he may make in the future. 
Creation issued its final response to Mr I’s complaint on 20 April 2022. In this it explained the 
application was declined as it didn’t meet Creation’s internal lending criteria and it doesn’t 
have to disclose what makes up its internal lending criteria, as this is business sensitive 
information. Creation clarified that the application would appear on Mr I’s credit report, but 
the result of it wouldn’t. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr I referred his complaint to our service. He said he has a 
perfect credit score and had never been refused credit previously. Therefore, he wanted to 
understand exactly why he had been declined. Mr I said Creation saying the application 
didn’t meet its internal lending criteria, didn’t explain anything. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and said Creation isn’t obliged to give a 
specific reason for its decision to decline Mr I’s application, but Creation did explain the 
application didn’t meet its internal lending criteria. The investigator also said lending 
decisions are usually based on several factors and every lender will assess these differently. 
Given this, Creation hadn’t acted unreasonable in making the decision to decline Mr I’s 
application. 
Mr I disagreed and said he should be given the reasons why he didn’t meet Creation’s 
internal lending criteria. As Mr I disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not 
because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Creation is entitled to set its lending criteria, as this is a commercial process. My role isn’t to 
comment on commercial decisions or to tell Creation how to set its lending criteria. I can 
consider whether Creation has applied its lending criteria fairly. 
Creation has provided evidence of the application Mr I made in April 2022. This explains a 
specific internal lending rule resulted in the application being declined. I wouldn’t expect 
Creation to share details of what its lending criteria is, as like I’ve said above, that’s sensitive 
information that could be used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
Where Creation decides not to lend, the Standards of Lending Practice explain that it should 
provide the primary reason why. I think Creation has done that here. It has explained that a 
specific internal lending rule meant the application didn’t meet its criteria and was therefore 
declined. I do acknowledge why Mr I would like further clarification, but Creation doesn’t 
have to give detailed reasons and I’m satisfied what it has provided is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
Overall, I’m not persuaded that Creation acted unreasonably when declining Mr I’s 
application and there doesn’t appear to be anything to suggest Creation applied its lending 
criteria unfairly. 
I’ve also considered whether Creation should remove the application from Mr I’s credit file. I 
note Creation has explained the results of the application wouldn’t appear. But as the 
application itself is a true and accurate reflection of what happened, I believe it should show 
as being carried out. 
My final decision
I don’t uphold Mr I’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3658287
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss F and Mr M complain that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) provided 
misleading information about why they had been declined for credit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss F and Mr M, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll 
explain why.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to set their lending criteria and if they decide not to lend the Standards of
Lending Practice explain that they should provide the primary reason why.
Here Creation have done that. They explained that they refused to provide credit because 
the application didn’t pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them 
to share details of how this score is generated as that’s sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications.
It’s not only adverse information that businesses may consider in a credit file it could also be 
other factors such as the amount of credit, or the number of applications made etc. Whilst I 
understand that Miss F and Mr M have explained their credit scores are excellent, I don’t 
think that means Creation necessarily had to accept the application. That was a decision for 
them to make.
So, whilst I understand that it may have been easier to simply explain that they only had to 
give a primary reason for rejecting the application, I don’t think they were wrong to refer  
Miss F and Mr R to the credit reference agencies and, although I can see that a response to 
the complaint wasn’t received for some time, it was received within the eight week period 
Creation are required to respond in, so I can’t say the response was late. I can see that 
Creation did remove one of the hard searches from the credit file as they realised this had 
been generated as a result of Miss F and Mr M’s endeavours to resubmit the initial 
application – I think that was fair in the circumstances.
Overall, I’m afraid I don’t think Creation have been unreasonable here and I’m not asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3664251
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr T purchased a mattress, bed frame and headboard from a supplier and 
entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
The bed was delivered in June 2021. Mr T experienced an issue with the mattress being 
uneven and uncomfortable and complained to the supplier but was unable to resolve 
matters, so he raised a section 75 claim with Creation.
Creation rejected the claim. It said there was no evidence to show that there was a fault with 
the mattress.
Mr T complained to this service. He also obtained an independent inspection report. The 
report said that the topper on the mattress had deteriorated due to the poor quality of the 
filing and the coil springs. The report concluded that the fault was a manufacturing defect.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said the mattress wasn’t of satisfactory quality 
and that Mr T should be allowed to reject it. Creation didn’t agree. It said that Mr T had 
refused to allow the supplier to arrange an inspection and that at the time of the section 75 
claim being raised there was no evidence of a fault. Creation said it had suggested some 
names of inspection companies to Mr T. It also said its terms and conditions limited refunds 
of inspection costs to £60.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was persuaded by the inspection report that 
the mattress wasn’t of satisfactory quality. I also said that although Mr T had complained 
about delay, I thought that Mr T should accept some responsibility for the delay because he 
hadn’t accepted the suppliers offer to arrange an inspection. In relation to the costs of 
inspection, I said that I didn’t think it was fair for Creation to restrict a consumers ability to 
chose an inspector of their choice, and I didn’t think the fee charged by the inspector chosen 
by Mr T was unreasonable.
I said that Creation should end the agreement, refund the deposit of £1000, refund the 
payments made under the agreement and refund the cost of the inspection report.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
make. 
Mr T responded and said he agreed with my provisional decision, but he wanted £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. Mr T said he agreed to an 
extent that there had been delay in arranging an inspection but said it had taken 4 weeks to 
book the appointment.
Creation responded and made comments on the limit on refunds of an inspection. It said its 
terms and conditions in relation to inspections were fair. It said it didn’t think I had given 
sufficient weight to Mr T’s conduct generally, and to his refusal to allow the supplier to 
arrange an inspection. Creation also made various points in relation to the relevant 
legislation. I’ve taken all of these comments into account. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered carefully what both parties have said, my decision hasn’t changed. 
I remain of the view that the mattress wasn’t of satisfactory quality. The inspection report 
supports this finding. 
I’ve already said – and I remain of the view - that Mr T must accept responsibility for the 
delay in obtaining evidence to show that the mattress was faulty. This is why I haven’t made 
an award for distress and inconvenience, because responsibility for the delay (and any 
distress and inconvenience caused as a result of the length of time it’s taken to resolve this) 
rests with Mr T.
In relation to the refund of the cost of the inspection report, my view remains as set out in my 
provisional decision.
In relation to the appropriate remedy here, the inspection report is clear that the fault can’t be 
repaired. There’s no evidence that an identical replacement mattress is available, and this 
option has never been offered to Mr T. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that 
rejection is the fairest way to resolve the complaint.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the bed to be collected at no cost to Mr T
Refund the deposit of £1000 refund all payments made by Mr T under the agreement
Refund the cost of the inspection report
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Remove any adverse information in relation to the agreement from Mr T’s credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3664282
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd charged him an incorrect amount of 
interest on a TV that he’d purchased on a buy now pay later scheme. 
What happened
In January 2021 Mr W purchased a TV via a retailer’s website which he financed via a credit 
agreement with Creation. The cost of the TV was £1,699 and the credit agreement came 
with a promotional offer of a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) for a six-month period.  If at the end 
of the six months the TV had not been paid for in full then interest at the rate of 24.9% APR 
would be applied from the date of purchase on any amount outstanding and a direct debit 
would be set up for monthly payments. If no payments were made during the BNPL then the 
cost was spread over 24 monthly payments of £98.91 making a total amount of £2,373.84 to 
be paid for the TV.
Mr W didn’t make any payments towards the TV during the six-month period. In July 2021 
when the BNPL period ended, interest was added from January 2021 (the date of purchase) 
in the amount of £199.78. This increased the cost of the TV to £1,898.78. Mr W did not make 
a payment that month and a monthly direct debit was set up for £98.91 from August 2021.
In August 2021 the first direct debit was paid and further interest for that month was added in 
the amount of £35.51. The balance on the TV was now £1835.38. Mr W paid the TV off in 
full, but a further direct debit was taken in September 2021. Mr W complained to Creation 
about this payment and it was reimbursed to his bank account.
Mr W was concerned about the payment he’d made for the TV, he said he didn’t think he 
should have paid as much interest as he had. He said he had only been around one month 
late in paying the full balance following the end of the BNPL period.
Creation didn’t uphold his complaint. It said that interest had been added from July 2021 
when the BNPL period had ended and that the correct processes had been applied. It 
confirmed that the direct debit taken in September 2021 had been after the TV had been 
paid for and that this amount had subsequently been reimbursed.
Mr W was unhappy at Creation’s response and complained to this service. He said he 
believed he had been overcharged interest on the TV. Our investigator didn’t recommend 
that his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that the agreement stated: “If at any time you make Buy Now Pay Later 
transactions no interest will be charged on any payment made during the Buy Now Pay Later 
period. If you pay the full amount due under that Buy Now Pay Later transaction before the 
end of the Buy Now Pay Later period, no interest will be payable. If you do not repay the 
full amount during the Buy Now Pay Later period interest will be charged at the rate 
shown in your credit agreement from the date of the Buy Now Pay later transaction on 
any amount not paid and you will have to make monthly payments”. And as Mr W 
hadn’t settled the cost of the TV in the BNPL period, Creation had been entitled to add 
interest from the point of purchase. 
Our investigator said she didn’t think Creation had made any error in the amount of interest it 
had added to the cost of the TV.
Mr W disagreed with the view of our investigator as he said the figures in his credit account 
statements didn’t add up correctly. He said he was concerned about the rollover interest that 
was added to his account in July 2021 as this, together with the other interest that had been 
added, would mean the TV would have cost around £2,600 at the end of the 24 month 
period and not the £2373.84 figure that had been quoted in his credit agreement. Mr W was 
also concerned about the direct debit amount having been added to his balance as shown 
by his October 2021 account statement as opposed to it being reimbursed. 
As Mr W didn’t agree with our investigator’s view the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision I have looked at the various statements Mr W has provided for his 
credit account with Creation together with the credit agreement. Having done so, I’m not 
upholding Mr W’s complaint and I will explain why.
Mr W purchased a TV in January 2021 via a credit agreement with Creation. The TV’s 
purchase price was £1,699 and Mr W had until July to pay for it in full if he didn’t wish to pay 
interest on that amount. I’ve seen that it was Mr W’s original intention to pay the full amount 
before the BNPL term ended but for an unknown reason didn’t do so.
Looking at the wording of the agreement for the credit I think it’s clear that interest will be 
added from the date of purchase, here that’s January 2021 if the full balance for the TV isn’t 
paid. This means that when the BNPL term ended in July 2021 six months’ worth of interest 
was added to Mr W’s account. This is the rollover interest figure of £199.75 shown on Mr 
W’s July account statement. This amount was also added to the cost of the TV on that same 
statement which is why the balance for that item is shown as £1,898.78. I’m satisfied this 
amount was only added once to Mr W’s credit account. This rollover interest is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the BNPL scheme.
I also think that looking at the figures that have been provided on the credit agreement that 
interest on the TV would be a little over £30pm. So, I’m satisfied that £199.75 figure is 
correct for six months’ worth of interest. 
In August 2021 a direct debit payment of £98.91 was taken from Mr W’s bank account and 
paid towards the outstanding balance of the TV. In addition, interest was added as per the 
credit agreement of £35.51 for the preceding month. The balance therefore owing for the TV 
was now £1,835.38. 
In September a further month’s interest of £32.11 was added to the amount outstanding for 
the TV. Mr W paid the full amount outstanding of £1,867.49 and the balance for that item 
was marked as closed. However, as Mr W had made his payment close to the due date for 
the direct debit of £98.91, this amount was still taken from his account. 
Creation says that following a conversation with Mr W, it agreed this direct debit should be 
reimbursed and it arranged for this payment to be returned to Mr W’s bank. This means that 
the direct debit wasn’t credited back to Mr W’s credit account but would have been returned 
to his bank account by his bank. The amount of £98.81 therefore needed to be cancelled 
from Mr W’s credit account balance.
I’ve seen that on Mr W’s October 2021 credit account statement that the direct debit is noted 
as being returned as an overpayment. I accept that £98.91 was added to the previous 
balance as the closing balance on that statement has increased by that exact amount. But 
while I can understand why this has confused Mr W, by taking this action Creation has 
actually simply cancelled out what would have otherwise shown incorrectly as a credit on his 
account since that sum had been repaid. This is because the balance brought forward figure 
has the £98.91 amount deducted from it and needs to have that amount readded to reach 
the correct outstanding balance on this credit account.
This is confirmed by checking the balance that is now shown against the four items shown 
that Mr W has also purchased on credit using this account which all have BNPL applicable 
periods. The total cost of those four items equals the amount shown as the new outstanding 
balance. I’m therefore satisfied that Mr W wasn’t charged an additional £98.91 and this 
amount has been reimbursed. The direct debit repayment has been shown as a debit to 
correct the outstanding balance on the account from the previous statement because the 
amount was paid back to his bank account.
For the reasons set out above, I’m therefore for satisfied that Creation has not made an error 
in the interest it has charged Mr W for the TV and the interest that was added was in 
accordance with the agreement’s terms and conditions. I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I’m not upholding Mr W’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3675713
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”), irresponsibly granted 
her a credit account with Currys. 
What happened
In September 2020 Miss F entered into a credit agreement with Currys. She was given a 
credit limit facility of £4,000 on her account.
In May 2021 Miss F purchased two smartphones using the account. Miss F says that 
Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks when she used the credit facility to 
purchase the smartphones. She says if it had, it would have seen she couldn’t afford to 
repay the credit. She also says that since Creation had previously turned her down for other 
purchases, it ought not to have allowed her to make these further purchases.
Creation said it properly assessed Miss F’s financial circumstances when granting her the 
credit facility. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably, having approved the initial agreement, and so it didn’t need to do 
anything more for this transaction.
Miss F didn’t agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before opening the account, I think Creation  gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Miss F about her ability to repay. This included relying on information on 
her account application that included details about her income and residential status. It also 
completed a credit check which showed no adverse information in relation to her existing 
unsecured debt. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesn’t 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, I’ve thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Having considered the information and evidence gathered by Creation, I’m satisfied that the 
checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable to 
Miss F. I say this because based on the data it used for her income and regular committed 
expenditure, it looks as if she had enough disposable income to manage the account and 
there wasn’t any suggestion of her experiencing significant financial difficulty based on her 
credit checks. For these reasons, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly when approving the 
finance application.
I’ve seen that prior to purchasing the smartphones, Miss F had started but not completed a 
number of online transactions on the account in relation to other purchases. It looks as if she 
didn’t complete the online purchase process. In other words, it wasn’t because Creation was 
rejecting those transactions due to Miss F having affordability issues. By contrast, when Miss 
F purchased the smartphones she properly completed the online transaction process. 
Creation has told us that it wasn’t able to carry out the direct debit instruction to take the 
initial account payment for the smartphones and that this led to a fee being applied to the 
account. Soon after that, Miss F contacted Creation to explain that her financial 
circumstances weren’t good and as a result she’d be unable to make the repayments. She 
said this due to the smartphones having been stolen from her home before she had been 
able to sell them in order to raise funds for herself. 
I understand that Miss F may have gone on to purchase a further three smartphones on her 
account, although the majority of the balance owing on the account has since been cleared. 
Finally, Miss F recently showed us a letter Creation sent her declining credit but it’s not clear 
which transaction or transactions this relates to. But I don’t consider this to be something 
that affects my findings.
It follows that, given that the account credit limit had been approved several months earlier, I 
don’t consider that it was necessary for Creation to carry out any further checks to see if 
Miss F was able to afford the credit. I’m satisfied Creation carried out proportionate checks 
when it agreed the credit account. So I don’t think it acted unfairly in allowing Miss F to use 
the account to purchase the two smartphones. I’m therefore not persuaded that Creation has 
acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3678336
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr V complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a fixed sum 
loan he couldn’t afford to repay. He also complains that it didn’t offer his assistance when he 
told it he couldn’t meet the repayments.
What happened
In January 2018, Mr V acquired a new furniture financed by a fixed sum loan agreement 
from Creation. Mr V paid a deposit of £414 and was required to make 36 monthly 
repayments of £100. The agreement was 0% interest.  
Mr V says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasn’t affordable. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and assessing the 
information Mr V provided as part of his application.  
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr V didn’t agree and said that the credit check only showed his previous payments and not 
whether the agreement was affordable going forward. He said he had previous irresponsible 
lending complaints upheld against other companies. He said he wasn’t earning over £50,000 
at the time of the application and that had adequate checks been carried out Creation would 
have found his annual income was £38,000.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Creation says that Mr V’s application included information that he owned his home, was in 
full time employment with an annual income above £50,000 and had one dependent. It also 
carried out a credit check which showed Mr V had credit card debts of £2,854, no 
outstanding debt in short term lending, £483 monthly commitments in secured lending and 
£508 unsecured lending. It said based on its checks the lending was affordable.
While I note the information gained through the credit check, I think it reasonable that a 
credit assessment would also provide information about how Mr V was managing his 
existing credit commitments, including information about any defaults, missed payments or 
county court judgements. I haven’t seen that this information was gathered, and I’ve 
therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr V to assess what information 
would likely have been seen had these checks taken place.
Mr V’s credit file didn’t show any defaults or county court judgements but it did show that he 
missed a payment on an account a month before his application to Creation and had also 
entered a debt management plan around a year earlier. I think this shows signs that Mr V 
had previously experienced financial difficulties and that these could still be ongoing. It 
therefore would have been proportionate for Creation to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr V’s financial circumstances before lending to ensure the loan was 
affordable.
I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to have found out more about Mr V’s 
income and expenses in order to assess whether the lending was affordable. I can’t be 
certain what Mr V would have told Creation had it asked. But in the absence of anything 
else, I’ve placed significant weight on the information contained in Mr V’s statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Mr V’s application said he had an annual income of over £50,000. Mr V disputes this saying 
he was earning £38,000 at the time. I have looked at Mr V’s pay slips for the months leading 
up to the application and these show an average monthly income of around £2,450. 
Additional to this income his bank statements show regular income from another source. 
This gave Mr V a total monthly income of around £4,265. This would suggest he was earning 
over £50,000 a year.
Mr V has explained his regular monthly expenses for credit commitments and living costs 
were around £2,628 before food and transport costs. I have looked at the information in 
Mr V’s bank statements. These show monthly expenses of around £3,700 (including his 
credit commitments, payments for utilities and other living costs such as food and fuel). 
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Mr V. 
I also note that the repayments were relatively low compared to Mr V’s income and the 
agreement was 0% interest so he was only required to pay back the amount he had the 
benefit of.
For these reasons, I’m not persuaded that Creation acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3683760
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M is unhappy about the way in which Creation Consumer Finance Ltd handled her 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1975.
What happened
In October 2018 Miss M purchased a cooker from a supplier and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
In 2021 the cooker developed a fault. Miss M contacted the supplier who offered a partial 
refund.
Miss M raised a section 75 claim with Creation seeking a full refund. Creation accepted the 
claim but offered a partial refund, taking the age and usage of the cooker into account. Miss 
M was unhappy with the outcome and complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I thought Miss M had a valid section 75 claim 
because the cooker had failed prematurely and therefore wasn’t durable and was of 
unsatisfactory quality. I looked into the average lifespan of a cooker of the type supplied to 
Miss M and said a reasonable person could expect a cooker of this type to last 12 years. I 
said that because Miss M had owned the cooker for 3 years before it failed, and because no 
replacement cooker was available, It was fair to ask Creation to refund the purchase price of 
the cooker less a deduction of 25% for use, resulting in a  refund of £284.99 to Miss M. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wished to 
make.
Miss M said she accepted my provisional decision. Creation didn’t respond.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has accepted my decision and Creation hasn’t responded. In the circumstances, I 
see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay £284.99 to Miss M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
£284.99 to Miss M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3683782
--------------------------

The complaint
 Mr P complains about the quality of a car he bought using a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. He wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mr P entered into a hire purchase agreement with Creation in early 2021. The car he got 
was just over five and a half years old and covered around 97,500 miles. The agreement 
was for £8,475. This was the cash price of the car less the £1,000 deposit Mr P had already 
paid.
Mr P told us that when he got the car, he noticed various issues with it. These included, but 
weren’t limited to: issues with the airbag; missing wheel nuts; damaged headlights; dented 
bonnet; damaged undertray; problems with the key; damage to the dash and steering wheel; 
broken trim; misaligned body panels; poor paint finish and cosmetic damage.
He raised this with the supplier and Creation. He said he wanted to reject the car. Creation 
didn’t agree to this. Briefly, it said an independent report had shown the car was legal, 
roadworthy, and only had cosmetic damage.
Mr P wasn’t happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at 
by one of our investigators. Mr P also provided an independent report which concluded the 
car wasn’t fit for purpose when it was supplied. Our investigator thought Mr P should be 
allowed to reject the car. She set out what Creation needed to do to put things right.
 
In reply, it supplied us with a copy of the earlier independent report it had relied on. This was 
carried out by the same company as the one Mr P used and, as above, it said the car was fit 
for purpose when it was supplied. This didn’t change our investigator’s opinion about what 
Creation needed to do to put things right.
 
Creation didn’t confirm whether or not it agreed with our investigator. As the matter remains 
unresolved, it’s been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold it. I’ll explain why. First, I’m very aware I’ve 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: was the car supplied to Mr P by Creation of satisfactory quality?
If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, I haven’t ignored it. I’ve not commented on every 
individual detail. I’ve focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
 
Mr P got the car using a hire purchase agreement in early 2021. As the finance provider, 
Creation is responsible for the quality of the car obtained using it. Here, the relevant 
legislation dealing with the quality of goods is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015). 
Briefly, this sets out that the car provided under the agreement should be of satisfactory 
quality. When reaching my decision, I’m required to take relevant law into account. I’m also 
required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint.
 
When deciding if a car is of satisfactory quality, there are number of factors to think about. 
These include, but aren’t limited to, things such as the age of the car, the mileage and 
durability. This car was about five and a half years old and had done around 97,500 miles. 
So, it’s likely it would have shown signs of wear and tear. Such wear and tear wouldn’t in 
itself automatically mean a car was of unsatisfactory quality or that Creation would be 
responsible for this. But it would be responsible for other issues you wouldn’t expect (or 
reasonably be aware of) with a car of this age and/or mileage, such as problems with 
durability or safety.
 
There’s no dispute that there were faults with the car when Mr P got it. This is shown by the 
independent reports supplied by both Mr P and Creation. What I need to decide is if those 
faults make the car of unsatisfactory quality. As I’ve said above, both reports were carried 
out by the same company and, indeed, by the same engineer. The report supplied by 
Creation is from May 2021. The one Mr P sent us is from January 2022.
By and large, both reports identify similar issues to those listed above. The crucial difference 
is that the later report also identifies that the pedestrian airbags are missing from the bonnet 
and there were issues with the front safety belt reels. This was in addition to the safety 
issues outlined in both reports including a missing wheel nut and the windscreen washers 
not working.
 
It’s not apparent why the additional problems identified in the later report weren’t picked up 
first time round by the engineer. I do note the weather conditions for the first inspection were 
stated as wet. While the engineer said this could mean minor bodywork blemishes might not 
be noticeable, it’s not clear if the conditions affected the actual inspection in any other way.
In any event, the later report clearly identified health and safety issues that weren’t picked up 
before. The engineer concluded the car wasn’t in a satisfactory condition and that it wasn’t fit 
for purpose at the point of sale. He also stated there was no suggestion Mr P caused any of 
the damage.
 
I can see from the mileage recorded in both reports that this was around the same amount 
as when Mr P got the car, meaning he’d used the car only minimally, if at all. He’d certainly 
not used it between the dates of the two inspections. This supports the engineer’s statement 
that there’s no suggestion Mr P caused any of the damage.
 
I’ve considered both reports at some length. As above, I can’t be certain why the first 
inspection didn’t pick up all the health and safety issues listed in the second report. But the 
later report clearly identifies these as issues, and I’m satisfied it’s fair and reasonable for me 
to rely on this report. It follows, given the findings of that report, that I’m also satisfied the car 
provided to Mr P by Creation wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
 
The CRA 2015 gives Mr P a short term right to reject the car if it wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality. The available evidence shows he complained about the quality of the car within 30 
days of getting it and wanted to reject it. Given I’m satisfied the car wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied, I think Mr P should have been able to reject it at that point.
Putting things right
As I’ve said, Mr P should have been able to reject the car. I’m satisfied, for the reasons I’ve 
outlined above, he should now be allowed to do so. I’ve taken into account that Mr P has 
had minimal, if any, use of the car as outlined above. This is further supported by the car not 
having a valid MOT after the date of the later inspection.
 
To put things right Creation should now do the following:

Collect the car at no cost to Mr P;

Cancel the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay;

Refund the £1,000 deposit*

Refund all the payments Mr P has paid since the start of the agreement until it’s 
cancelled*

Refund the £195 Mr paid for the later inspection on 7 February 2022*; and

Update Mr P’s credit file to reflect the cancellation of the agreement and remove any 
adverse markers, if applicable.
*Creation should add 8% annual simple interest on these amounts from the date they were 
paid until the date of settlement. If it thinks it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should now 
settle it in the way I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3692482
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs E complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs E was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Creation.
Prior to delivery of the car, the MOT issued an advisory for an oil leak. The supplying dealer 
said this would be repaired before Mrs E took delivery of the car.
When she got the car, Mrs E experienced noises and vibration. She took the car to a third 
party garage for a health check. This showed that the oil leak was still present. The garage 
advised Mrs E to change the air filter as the noise seemed to be coming from there.
Mrs E contacted the supplying dealer to advise it of the issues. She also arranged a further 
MOT. Further issues were found at MOT.
Mrs E contacted Creation. It advised her that the supplying dealer should be given the 
opportunity to repair the car. The car was returned to the supplying dealer for repairs.
When Mrs E collected the car, she noticed an issue with the gearbox and vibration. She took 
the car to a third party garage who recommended that she took the car to a specialist 
garage. Mrs E took the car to a specialist garage, who said the oil leak was still present and 
that damage had been caused to the gearbox. The garage said it wasn’t able to check the oil 
levels because the dipstick was seized in the oil cylinder.
Mrs E wasn’t happy to drive the car after this. She says it was declared SORN in July 2021.
Mrs E complained to Creation. It arranged an independent inspection of the car. The 
engineer found several fault codes. He was unable to check the oil level because the 
dipstick was seized. The engineer didn’t test drive the car. The report concluded that 
because of the time and mileage elapsed since the point of supply the fault wouldn’t have 
been present the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent report, Creation refused to allow a rejection.
Mrs E wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied that the oil leak wasn’t successfully 
repaired by the supplying dealer and said that Mrs E should be allowed to reject the car. The 
investigator said she didn’t think the independent inspector had been provided with full 
details of the cars history and was unaware of the previous attempts to repair the leak. The 
investigator felt that the independent inspection would’ve reached a different conclusion if he 
had full knowledge of the facts.
Creation didn’t agree. It queried why the dipstick was seized and said that because it wasn’t 
seized at MOT, this pointed towards interference or damage. It also said that an 
unauthorised change had been made to the car when the air filter was fitted.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. Satisfactory quality includes fitness for 
purpose, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
Under the legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, there’s a presumption that 
the fault was present or developing at the point of supply and its generally up to the business 
to put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair 
isn’t successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is 
reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
At the point of supply, the car was around 8 years old and had covered around 90,515 miles. 
I’d expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to require more repairs 
and maintenance than, for instance, a brand new car.
I’ve reviewed all of the available information. Based on what I’ve seen, I’m satisfied that the 
car had a fault. This is because Mrs E reported issues as soon as she got the car, a third 
party garage diagnosed an oil leak, a specialist garage diagnosed an oil leak and the 
independent inspector concluded that the car had faults.
I’ve gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
I can see that an MOT was carried out on the car prior to it being supplied to Mrs E. This 
identified an oil leak. Mrs E has provided evidence showing that the supplying dealer 
advised her that the leak had been repaired prior to her taking delivery of the car.
I can also see that Mrs E took the car for a health check in May 2021. This identified that the 
oil leak was still present. Because of this, I don’t think the supplying dealers’ repairs were 
successful. Under the relevant legislation, Mrs E would have been able to reject the car at 
this point. 
The car was inspected in November 2021. The inspector found that the dipstick was 
jammed, so he was unable to check the oil level. But he said he found evidence of an oil 
leak around the sump pan area.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m persuaded that there was an oil leak which was present at the 
point of supply. The supplying dealers attempt at repair was unsuccessful on two occasions. 
The independent report identified the oil leak but concluded that it would be have been 
present at the point of supply because of the time and mileage elapsed.
I have some concerns about the independent engineer’s conclusion. Its clear from the cars 
history that there was an oil leak at the point of supply and that this wasn’t successfully 
repaired on a subsequent attempt. But the engineer hasn’t referenced the previous oil leak 
at all. This gives me reason to think that the engineer wasn’t made aware of the full history of 
the car and reached his conclusion without being in possession of all of the relevant facts. In 
my view, the engineer’s conclusion isn’t reliable for this reason.
I’ve taken all the evidence into account. Having done so, I’m persuaded that the car wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed 
one opportunity to put things right. There’s already been two attempts at repairing the oil 
leak, so the correct outcome here is a rejection.
I’ve taken into account the points made by Creation about the jammed dipstick and the air 
filter. I don’t think these points are relevant to my finding that the car wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality because of the oil leak. But I’ll deal with the points for the sake of completeness. In 
relation to the dipstick, there’s no evidence as to how, or when this happened. But I think its 
reasonable to assume that the dipstick wasn’t seized when Mrs E had the car checked in 
May 2021, because no mention of it is made. So, I think it seized sometime after this. Its 
clear from the evidence that there was an oil leak at the point of supply. There’s nothing to 
suggest that the oil leak was caused by the seized dipstick.
The air filter was replaced as part of an attempt to resolve the noise issue. I’ve found that the 
car was of unsatisfactory quality because of the oil leak. There’s no evidence to suggest that 
there’s a fault with the air filter, or that changing the air filter caused the oil leak. The oil leak 
was present before the air filter was changed.
Putting things right
I’ve already explained why I don’t think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied and 
that Mrs E should be able to reject it.
Its clear that Mrs E has been caused a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s had to take the car back 
to various garages and hasn’t been able to drive it since November 2021. In fact, Mrs E says 
she had the car SORN prior to this but I haven’t seen evidence of that, so I’m in agreement 
with the investigator that November 2021 is the relevant date for calculating any refund of 
payments under the agreement.
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs E
Refund all monthly payments made since 16 November 2021 together with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs E’s credit file in relation to the agreement
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3696059
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd haven’t properly dealt with a Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 claim (‘S75 claim’) about a faulty bed. In this complaint Mr T is 
assisted by his representative but for ease I will refer to Mr T throughout. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr T ordered a number of items from a bed retailer. He entered into a 0% fixed 
sum loan agreement with Creation for the cost. Delivery of the items was due on 16 
September 2021, but on 15 September 2021 the retailer advised that one of the items, a 
Murphy bed frame was delayed until November. Mr T was unhappy with this but agreed to 
the remainder of the order being delivered on 16 September 2021 as he had disposed of his 
old beds.
On 16 September 2021 the base intended to be used with the Murphy bedframe was found 
to be faulty and required screws and a plate to complete assembly. Mr T was unable to use 
the bed as it wasn’t correctly assembled. Mr T contacted the retailer that day via email and 
stated that he wanted to cancel the order for the Murphy frame and base and receive a full 
refund for this part of the order. It seems that the supplier did nothing to action this and on 29 
September 2021 Mr T complained to Creation that the Murphy frame had not been delivered 
and the base was faulty. 
Creation responded on 23 November 2021 that it was awaiting information from the retailer 
and could not provide a response to his complaint. Mr T was advised in this letter of his 
rights to make a referral to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that Creation hadn’t acted fairly. They 
thought that Mr T had not received part of an order that he had paid for and that an item had 
been delivered that was not of satisfactory quality. They recommended that these items, 
together with additional ancillary products bought at the time to use with this bed and frame 
were collected and the items refunded from Mr T’s finance agreement. They also thought 
that Creation should pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the failure to deal with Mr 
T’s S75 claim.
Creation provided a response to the investigator’s view and asked for further information it 
had received from the retailer to be taken into account. The investigator took the information 
into consideration and issued a second view which indicated that their conclusions were 
essentially unchanged and that Mr T should have a refund for the base, frame and mattress 
together with the ancillary products purchased. Mr T provisionally accepted the investigator’s 
conclusions but only if Creation complied swiftly. Creation attempted to call the investigator 
but were asked to call back during working hours. As the parties haven’t been able to agree 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.          
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that I have summarised this complaint and I haven’t commented in detail on 
each and every piece of information I’ve seen. The background is familiar to the parties and 
in this decision I will focus on giving reasons for my decision rather than rehearse the facts. 
So, if there is something I haven’t mentioned it doesn’t mean I’ve overlooked it.
When reaching my decision I am required to take into account the relevant law although I am 
not required to apply it in the same way as a court and I need to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. In this case I am considering S75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act and the Consumer Rights Act 2015. S75 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the 
provider of finance for the bed, Mr T has a like claim against Creation for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I am satisfied the circumstances apply here.
It isn’t disputed that the bed frame was never delivered and that the base had a fault which 
required repair which hasn’t been carried out. The dispute between the parties is whether Mr 
T is entitled to a refund for those two items together with the ancillary products bought to be 
used with that bed. 
I think that Mr T made it very clear on the day of delivery when the base was delivered and 
found to need a repair that he wanted to cancel the order. Although the retailer suggests that 
it tried to set up a repair, this did not take place and the evidence I have seen suggests that 
the retailer agreed that the order could be cancelled and Mr T’s complaint was forwarded to 
the cancellation team. 
Although the retailer suggests it tried to contact Mr T for a repair of the base there is no 
evidence that this was ever done. There is no email or letter to Mr T to confirm this course of 
action. In addition, the retailer seemingly agreed to cancel delivery of the murphy frame 
given it was outside the original timescale. The representations from the retailer and 
Creation are at times contradictory and inaccurate and do not address the issues raised.
I think that Mr T is entitled to reject the base as it was delivered with a fault and he indicated 
on the same day that he wished to cancel the order. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 allows 
a consumer to reject the faulty goods within 30 days. I think that Mr T was entitled to reject 
the base because of the fault and the frame has never been delivered. It follows that Mr T is 
entitled to a refund of those items. 
I agree with the investigator that the items purchased for use specifically with the rejected 
frame and base should also be refunded as they were ancillary products. 
I know that Mr T has requested as an alternative solution a repair and a discount on the 
whole order but this is not something that I think is fair or reasonable. The other items in the 
order were for use in relation to a different bed and were delivered on time and fault free. I 
know that Mr T would like to exchange the king size mattress under the retailer’s mattress 
guarantee but that it not something I can ask Creation to be responsible for as it is not part of 
the s75 claim. Similarly, I can’t ask Creation to discount items that are not faulty. 
   
Putting things right
So, having considered everything I uphold this complaint. I think that Creation should collect 
the faulty base and the ancillary items at no cost to Mr T at a convenient date.
These ancillary items are:
Tempur double mattress
Bed cover additional item
Bed cover primary item
Pack 4 pillows
Cooltouch pillows
Double bed mattress protector 
The finance agreement should then be re-worked to remove the above ancillary items 
together with the “sleepmotion” base and “murphy” frame and the assembly charge and any 
finance interest or charges relating to these.
Any adverse information recorded on Mr T’s credit file in relation to this agreement should be 
removed. 
I think that Creation have not dealt with Mr T’s request to reject the goods in a timely way 
and have not done enough to assist Mr T with this. This has caused him significant upset 
and stress and I agree with the investigator that Creation should pay £200 to reflect the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3701636
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd let to him when it shouldn’t have.
What happened
Creation lent a loan to Mr G in August 2019. The loan was for £5,000 with 36 monthly 
instalments of £183.60. 
When Mr G complained to Creation, it didn’t uphold his complaint, it said it carried out an 
assessment based on the information Mr G provided and lent correctly.
Mr G referred his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators, 
our adjudicator didn’t think Creation should have lent to Mr G. He thought Mr G’s 
circumstances at the time of the loan meant he couldn’t sustainably repay the loan over the 
term. Creation disagreed, it said it had carried out sufficient checks before lending and Mr G 
had maintained the loan repayment.
As the complaint hasn’t been resolved it has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about high cost lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Creation needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer’s income and expenditure. 
Creation has provided evidence to show that before lending this loan, it asked Mr G about 
his income, which is recorded as £22,000, as it is a round figure, I’ve assumed this was 
Mr G’s gross income at the time. There’s no evidence to show Creation asked Mr G about 
his monthly living cost. Creation also searched Mr G’s credit file and found he was borrowing 
from other sources including repaying other loans. 
Mr G declared that he had two dependents and so it’d have been reasonable in the 
circumstances for Creation to understand his monthly living costs. But even without going 
further to understand Mr G’s living costs, the results of Creation’s checks were concerning.
If Mr G’s gross income was £22,000, his net income will likely have been less. The 
information on the credit file shows Mr G was repaying loans of around £671 per month and 
had around £7,620 in revolving credit debt. It’s likely his monthly credit repayment would 
have been around £1,000 including this loan repayment of £180.
Mr G would have been spending a substantial part of his income on repaying credit, I think in 
those circumstances Creation as a responsible lender should have known Mr G was likely to 
struggle to repay the loan. The fact that Mr G may have made his monthly loan repayments 
on time doesn’t automatically mean the loan was sustainably lent.
Given the overall circumstances, Creation shouldn’t have lent to Mr G and it needs to put 
things right.
Putting things right

Remove all interest, fees and charges added to the loan

Treat all payments Mr G has made as payments towards the capital loan amount of 
£5000.

If there are overpayments above the capital, add 8% simple interest on those 
overpayments from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement†.

If there’s still an outstanding balance, Creation should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Mr G.

remove any negative information about loans from Mr G’s credit file once the loan 
capital has been repaid.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr G’s complaint and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3703509
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms H complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) financed a fitted kitchen which is 
of unsatisfactory quality. She has questioned the overall amount of the loan and seeks all 
the remedial work needed to be carried out, the starting point of the interest free period to be 
delayed until the works have been carried out and compensation for the distress an 
inconvenience this matter has caused.
What happened
Mr H took out a fixed loan sum agreement 8 September 2022 with Creation for the supply 
and installation of a fitted kitchen by a company I’ll call “D”.
She explains she is dissatisfied with the overall quality of the kitchen. She said:

the kitchen was delivered in parts, and incomplete for a considerable amount of time. 
This impacted the use of

the kitchen, meaning she had to operate her kitchen out of boxes.

The installation of the kitchen was very poor and remains incomplete

Parts of the kitchen were missing or didn’t match as they should

She’s said that multiple attempts to fix the kitchen have failed, leaving her with no 
resolution and reoccurring problems. 

In addition to this, she’s advised it caused her a considerable amount of stress. 
During the time she was trying to remedy the issues with DMD designs, she had a 
sick child and a very ill relative. 

Ms H has also questioned the overall amount of the loan. She’s advised that she 
expected the loan to be around half the total cost it appears to be.
In its final response dated, 7 January 2022 Creation upheld her complaint it said it having 
spoken to “D” it understood all remedial work had been undertaken but if anything more 
needed to be addressed “D” would be carry out any further work necessary. 
Ms H remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Ms H. He could see Creation had upheld the complaint 
and the suggested remedy was to complete the necessary remedial work to bring the 
kitchen up to a reasonable standard. Ms H had subsequently complained that the remedial 
work was not satisfactory. After reviewing all the photographic evidence provided by Ms H, 
the investigator agreed. He sympathised with Ms H’s frustrations that she still didn’t have the 
kitchen she expected and so he felt the best outcome was for Ms H to acquire new quotes 
from an independent company for the aspects of the kitchen she was unhappy with to allow 
Creation to pay for the necessary corrections.
Ms H remained unhappy with this outcome. She pointed out this is more time and stress with 
the responsibility falling on her to find quotes and carry out remedial work. She asked for an 
ombudsman review.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same outcome as the investigator. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Ms H, I’ll explain why. 
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
I can well understand why Ms H might be fed up with this whole matter by now. In October 
2021, Ms H was reasonably expecting to have a brand-new kitchen to enjoy. Instead, almost 
a year later, she is still waiting for her kitchen to be completed. To make matters worse, I 
don’t doubt she is understandably irked every time she catches sight of something in the 
kitchen that still needs finishing off. 
Moreover, whilst I can see Creation has accepted the kitchen installation was substandard it 
spoke with “D” and was assured that any further remedial work that needed to be completed 
would be undertaken. That was in January 2022 and Ms H remains dissatisfied.
Under the regulations Creation can be held liable if there was a breach of contract in the 
installation of the kitchen. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) sets out that the 
goods must be of satisfactory quality and that services delivered with reasonable care and 
skill. In this case that means that all the ordered parts needed to be delivered and be fit for 
purpose and that the installation needed to be to a reasonable standard. The general effect 
of section 75 is that if Ms H has a claim for breach of contract against the supplier, she can 
also bring that claim against Creation. 
Creation has upheld the complaint and asked “D” to complete any remedial action. It seems 
to have had a least one opportunity to do so but Ms H still feels some work needed to be 
completed. 
I have also listened to the telephone call between Ms H and out investigator. I can 
understand the frustration, but Ms H has also said she has started to complete some of the 
remedial work (such as removing unwanted silicone from the walls to allow her to decorate) 
herself.
Whilst understandable, this can of course pose a problem in attempting to redress the 
situation. Ms H also said in the call she didn’t want the trouble and upset of gaining quotes 
for an independent company to carry out further remedial work nor does she want “D” back 
in her home to potentially fail again to address her concerns.
I noted the investigator asked Ms H several times what she thought would be a suitable 
outcome, but Ms H didn’t have any other suggestions. The kitchen isn’t fitted to such a poor 
standard that the whole thing should be removed (nor does Ms H request that) but it’s the 
final finish that needs attention.
I sympathise with Ms H investing more time and effort in acquiring suitable quotes to allow 
the matter to be addressed but I’m afraid this would seem to be the most appropriate 
solution to break the impasse.  I entirely agree that “D” has had the opportunity to carry out 
remedial work and Ms H has lost all faith in this being done to a reasonable standard. So, 
I’m in agreement with the investigator that Ms H should acquire new quotes from an 
independent company for the aspects of the kitchen she was unhappy with to allow Creation 
to pay for the necessary corrections. This should find a way forward to finalise Ms H’s 
kitchen to the standard she expected.
I appreciate Ms H has previously asked for a reduction in the price of the kitchen but having 
looked at the timescale of events the claim was progressed appropriately at the point 
Creation was involved. I can’t say that Creation caused any delay, neither did they provide 
an unreasonable resolution. So, I have no proper basis to ask them to reduce the cost of the 
loan agreement nor to extend the start time of the interest free period.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint. Ms H should acquire independent 
quotes for the remaining remedial work to be completed, these should then be presented to 
Creation for payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3704536
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss I complains Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) irresponsibly agreed a 
personal loan for her. 
What happened
Miss I says Creation agreed a loan in May 2016 for a sum of £7,500 repayable over five 
years. Miss I says at the time the loan was approved by Creation, she was already in 
financial difficulties and was borrowing from family and friends and taking out pay day loans 
to manage her finances. Miss I says her monthly commitments for such debts, not taking into 
account the new Creation loan commitment, took up 40% of her take home pay. 
Miss I feels Creation acted irresponsibly providing this loan to her, and it was clear the 
monthly payments weren’t sustainable, which Creation would have known, if it had carried 
out proportionate checks before agreeing to it. Miss I wants Creation to refund all interest 
and charges and to treat any repayments made to the loan as overpayments and refund 
these if applicable. Miss I wants Creation to also remove any adverse entries on her credit 
file relating to this loan and pay her compensation for the stress this matter has caused her. 
Creations says when the loan was agreed in May 2016, it carried out reasonable checks and 
there was no indication from those checks the loan it had agreed was unaffordable. 
Additionally, Creation says there were no previous county court judgments, late payments or 
defaults on Miss I’s background. 
Miss I wasn’t happy with Creation’s response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Creation didn’t carry out proportionate checks and didn’t verify Miss I’s living 
costs - if it had it would have shown the loan payments weren’t affordable or sustainable. 
The investigator felt Miss I’s monthly credit commitments represented a large proportion of 
her disposable income and she wouldn’t have been able to meet the repayments over a 60-
month period, without borrowing again. The investigator asked Creation to :
• Buy back the loan if it’s able to do so.
• Calculate the repayments made by Miss I towards interest, fees and charges on the loan 
account and calculate 8% simple interest on this sum until the complaint is settled.
• Remove all interest fees and charges from the balance of the loan and treat any 
repayments as though they had been repayments of the principal. If that resulted in an 
overpayment, this should be refunded along with 8% simple interest.
• If there is still an outstanding balance, an affordable repayment plan should be agreed.
• Remove any adverse credit information from Miss I’s credit file once the loan has been fully 
repaid. 
Creation didn’t agree with the investigator’s view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision. 
Miss I has explained she was experiencing financial difficulties prior to the loan being agreed 
by Creation and I can understand that must have been a stressful time for her. When looking 
at this complaint I will consider if Creation acted irresponsibly when it approved a loan for 
Miss I back in May 2016. 
Creation have said it carried out appropriate credit worthiness and affordability checks on 
Miss I before it approved the loan. The first thing to say here is when looking at whether a 
loan is affordable or not, there are no set rules as to what checks a lender must undertake, 
other than they are reasonable and proportionate relative to the amount and term of the loan 
requested.
It’s also worth saying in these circumstances I would expect lenders like Creation to also 
consider a consumer’s existing financial commitments before providing further borrowing. 
Here from the information I have seen Miss I’s existing borrowing commitments, before the 
loan Creation approved of £7,500, totalled around £355 per month on a debt totalling around 
£19,000. 
It’s worth adding, of that existing debt a large proportion of it was committed with four years 
remaining. The addition of the new loan Creation agreed, meant that Miss I would now be 
committing to a further £7,500 of debt over a further five years, making a total indebtedness 
of over £26,000 and her monthly finance commitments increasing to approximately £540 per 
month, which represented around 45 % of her net salary each month. 
So, while I understand that Creation feel Miss I’s application met its normal modelling for 
such borrowing, here given the length of exposure of the new and existing borrowing, I feel it 
could have done more to check the new borrowing was sustainable. When looking at 
whether or not a lender has taken reasonable steps before approving any borrowing I would 
expect it to show that the borrower was able to sustainably repay credit without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
With that in mind, it’s fair to say given Miss I’s total amount of borrowing, debt to income and 
debt term, this justified further investigation -such as sight of bank statements or a full 
income and expenditure profile. Without it I’m not sure how Creation could have been fully 
satisfied Miss I could sustainably afford the repayments going forward. In fact, from the 
information I have seen, from Miss I’s own income and expenditure profile at that time and 
her bank statements, it suggests she was financially fully committed. 
With that in mind although Creation may not agree and will be disappointed with my 
decision, I am satisfied it didn’t take sufficient steps to understand if the loan was affordable 
and it now needs to take steps to put things right. While supporting the investigator’s view on 
the redress, I have tried to simplify what is required of Creation in my comments below.
Putting things right
I instruct Creation Consumer Finance Limited to :
• Take back the loan account from the debt collection agents if it is able to do so.
• Remove all interest and charges, charged to the loan account and calculate 8% simple 
interest on that sum and refund this to the loan account. 
• If that refund results in any overpayments to the loan account, this amount should be 
refunded to Miss I along with 8% simple interest on that sum. 
• If there is an outstanding balance remaining on the loan account after any refunds, 
Creation should agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss I. 
• Once the loan account has been fully repaid any adverse entries on Miss I’s credit file 
relating to that loan account should be removed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Creation Consumer Finance Limited to :
• Take back the loan account from the debt collection agents if it is able to do so.
• Remove all interest and charges, charged to the loan account and calculate 8% simple 
interest on that sum and refund this to the loan account. 
• If that refund results in any overpayments to the loan account, this amount should be 
refunded to Miss I along with 8% simple interest on that sum. 
• If there is an outstanding balance remaining on the loan account after any refunds, 
Creation should agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss I. 
• Once the loan account has been fully repaid any adverse entries on Miss I’s credit file 
relating to that loan account should be removed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3709369
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd selling his account and associated 
debt to a debt recovery agency.
What happened
Mr K took out a 5-year loan with Creation in 2018 with fixed monthly payments.
Mr K says he experienced financial difficulties in 2021 following Covid-19 and the sad loss of 
a family member.
Creation assisted Mr K with a payment break between February and May 2021. However, 
after making a contractual payment in June 2021, Mr K couldn’t make the next payment and 
found it necessary to request help from Creation.
Creation agreed to a significantly reduced payment plan but there was a delay completing 
the financial statement and setting it up, which Mr K attributes to Creation. The plan was set 
up in November 2021 and Mr K started to pay the reduced amount.
However, in February 2022, Mr K was shocked to discover Creation had sold his account 
and the associated debt to a debt recovery agency.
Mr K complained to Creation who said they were entitled to do so under the agreement 
terms and conditions.
Mr K complained to our service as he feels Creation’s actions are “utterly wrong”. He is 
concerned about the impact on his credit file and any future lending. Also, that his debt may 
be sold on again and he wants his account brought back to Creation.
Our investigator was satisfied that Creation hadn’t made an error and acted in line with the 
account terms and conditions which Mr K agreed.
As Mr K remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Mr K and the following is the reason for my decision.
As Mr K suffered a family bereavement and was then impacted by Covid-19, I considered 
him to have characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
(FCA’s) guidance on this topic. So, I looked at his payment record in 2020 and early 2021 
and the support provided by Creation.  I could see that Mr K made regular contractual 
payments throughout 2020, that Creation gave him a Covid-19 payment break in 2021 and 
Mr K’s difficulties started shortly after the end of the support break. 
So, I was satisfied that, prior to Mr K asking for their help in July 2021, Creation had already 
tried to help Mr K by providing support in line with the FCA guidance to support customers 
impacted by Covid-19. 
Also, whilst I could see Mr K previously had an excellent payment record, with regard to Mr 
K’s request for further support, I had to bear in mind that Creation is a business, and it 
wouldn’t be fair to expect them to hold an account open for a significant period without 
contractual payments.
I think it’s clear that after they gave support, Creation was entitled to expect contractual 
payments and Mr K was unfortunately not in a financial position to make them. 
Whilst I can see there was a delay setting up a reduced payment plan and that Mr K feels 
Creation contributed to the delay, the reason Mr K required the plan was because he 
couldn’t afford to pay the contractual amount. And, the reality here is that when Mr K missed 
the first payment he went into arrears and broke the agreement he signed which said:
‘You shall on the signing of this agreement pay us the instalments on the dates specified in 
the agreement. Punctual time of payment, and compliance with your other obligations, is of 
the essence of this agreement. ‘
‘If you fail to make any payment under this agreement by its due date, then, in addition to our 
other rights, we may charge default interest from the due date until the date of actual 
payment at the rate of interest specified in the agreement.’
Also, although the repayment plan was delayed, once it was agreed, it was less than the 
contractual payments. So, as pointed out by the investigator, even if there hadn’t been a 
delay setting up the agreement, arrears would’ve started to accrue because Mr K couldn’t 
pay the contractual amount.
I can understand Mr K’s shock and upset at Creation selling Mr K’s account and the 
associated debt to a debt recovery agency when he was part way through a repayment plan. 
So, I looked closely at the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
I found the agreement states: 
‘If we grant any time or other indulgence to you or to delay enforcing our rights this shall not 
amount to a waiver by us of our rights or of any breach of this agreement by you and shall 
not prevent us thereafter from relying upon our strict rights under this agreement.’
‘We may assign or securitise any of our rights under this agreement and/or any amounts 
owing under this agreement without notice to you.’
So, although I empathise with Mr K’s situation, including his frustration that he didn’t receive 
the letter Creation say they sent him which references the agreement in the small print, I’m 
satisfied Creation’s actions to sell his debt were within the signed agreement. Also, that 
Creation didn’t have an obligation to complete the plan or give notice.
Regarding Mr K’s questions about the fairness of Creation’s action to sell his debt to a debt 
recovery agency part way through a plan, I’m satisfied that Mr K was in arrears, broke the 
agreement and Creation weren’t receiving the contractual payments which they were entitled 
to receive. So, this was a commercial decision and, as our service is not the regulator, I can’t 
tell Creation how to run their business.
So, considering all the above, I can’t see that Creation have acted unreasonably here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3714743
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that he has not received a refund that he was promised by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr D bought a bed costing £2,860.77 from a retailer, which I’ll refer to as “B”. 
He paid a deposit of £860.77 and took out a 36-month loan with Creation for the balance of 
£2,000.00. Under the loan agreement, Mr D was to pay £55.55 a month from 1 January 
2020 until 1 December 2022. The bed came with a five-year guarantee. 
Mr D says that the bed was faulty and that B agreed to take it back and refund part of the 
purchase price.
Creation’s records show that B refunded £75.00 on 31 January 2020 and a further £982.39 
on 22 March 2021. The latter refund left a balance on the account of £109.16. That was 
repaid by a further monthly payment of £55.55 (taken by direct debit) and a card payment of 
£53.61. The account was closed in May 2021.
In addition, B told Creation that it had refunded £543.59 directly to Mr D. Mr D said he 
thought that was to cover his loss of earnings when he had to stay home to deal with the 
matter.
Mr D says he was told that, if he paid the balance of £53.61, he would receive a £900 
refund. He says he did not however receive the refund that he was promised. Creation says 
that it did not receive any further payments from B and was unable to obtain any further 
information about what had been agreed.
Mr D referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He recommended that Creation refund the £900 that Mr D say was promised and 
resolve matters with B as necessary. He also recommended that Creation pay Mr D £100 in 
recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put.
Mr D accepted the investigator’s recommendation. Creation did not, however, and asked 
that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. 
I noted in my provisional decision that, because the purchase of the bed was financed in part 
with a loan from Creation made under arrangements with B, any claim for breach of contract 
which Mr D might have in respect of the purchase of the bed was one he could bring against 
Creation, as well as against B. 
I noted too that it appeared to be accepted that the bed was defective in some way. That 
was why B had agreed to a partial refund. I did not however have very much information 
about the nature of the defects. It was therefore possible that the refunds agreed were 
enough to put things right. 
I was not persuaded that B had agreed to refund any more than Mr D had already received 
or that he was entitled to any more. 
Mr D and Creation both provided further information in response to my provisional decision.
Creation said that Mr D had contacted B in October 2019 about a dip in the mattress. This 
was returned in January 2020. Mr D explained that he had bought a replacement mattress 
from a different supplier. 
The bed frame had been returned in March 2021. Creation said that B had refunded £982.39 
and that B had refunded £543.59 directly to Mr D. 
Mr D provided screenshots of exchanges with B in which it had indicated he was due a 
refund of just over £1,150. That calculation took into account the use Mr D had had of the 
bed as a proportion of the five-year period of the guarantee.
He also provided a copy of a letter from his employer to B, saying that he had lost earnings 
as a result of the faults with the bed. He said that the £543 refund could have been his loss 
of earnings.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, it is not in dispute that the bed was not of 
satisfactory quality, as it should have been. Nor is it disputed that Creation is equally liable 
for that with B. The main issues for me to consider are (i) whether B and Creation have one 
enough to put things right and (ii) whether Creation agreed to a further refund which has not 
been applied. 
On the first issue, there may be a number of remedies available where goods are not 
satisfactory. They include a full or partial refund, repair, replacement, return of the goods or 
rescission of the contract. Where, as in this case, goods have been used, the retailer can 
deduct a reasonable sum to reflect that use. It is clear from Mr D’s exchanges with B that 
these matters were taken into account when discussing the appropriate refund in this case.
The total refund given in this case was around £1,500, primarily made up of £543.59 paid by 
B and £982.39 deducted from the loan balance. That represents a little over half the price of 
the bed. 
Mr D says he thinks the payment of £543.59 might be compensation for his loss of earnings. 
However, the only evidence in support of that is an undated and unsigned letter, apparently 
from his employer to B, stating the dates on which he had to take unpaid leave. There is no 
calculation of the earnings lost and, perhaps more importantly, no evidence that B agreed to 
meet his claim for loss of earnings. I think it unlikely that it did so, since loss of earnings 
would not usually be recoverable from a seller of goods in connection with a claim of this 
nature. I think it more likely that the payment was in respect of an agreed reduction in price 
or partial refund. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that Mr D has shown that he was entitled to any more 
than he has already received in respect of the problems with the mattress and bed frame. 
I do not believe either that Creation agreed to a further refund, as Mr D has suggested. I 
think there was some confusion about this in discussions about the terms on which the bed 
would be returned. But I think the agreement was that B would make a refund which would, 
in effect, clear the loan balance. I do not believe there was an agreement that Mr D would 
receive a further £900.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to take any further steps to resolve Mr D’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3723951
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains about the outcome of a claim he made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
(“Creation”) under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mr S has been represented by his wife but for simplicity, and because Mr S is named on the 
finance agreement, I will refer only to Mr S in this decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
“Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill”.
There were several aspects of the installation that the independent inspector identified as 
inadequate. They included isolation switches having been fitted in the wrong place, pipework 
that needed redirecting, inadequate drainage, problems with the electrics, and misaligned 
cupboards. Mr S has explained that subsequently it was discovered that a gas supply wasn’t 
fitted or certified and neither was a water supply. So, I don’t think the installation has been 
performed with reasonable care and skill and I think there has been a breach of contract 
here. 
Putting things right
I don’t think it would be reasonable to ask Creation to compensate Mr S for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the supplier, but I am required to consider whether Creation have 
handled the claim reasonably and I don’t think they have.
Creation have offered to refund half of the installation costs (£1,323.89), but I don’t think 
that’s sufficient. The installation was supposed to be completed in three days, but it took 
over three months until the majority of issues were resolved and in the meantime Mr S was 
left without water and cooking facilities in the kitchen area. Mr S’s living area was cluttered 
with stock that was awaiting fitting. The shelving that was to form a central feature of the 
kitchen wasn’t long enough and couldn’t be fitted and Mr S had to wait for missing 
components to be delivered over an extended period of time. I think there were significant 
issues with the installation, and I think a refund of 75% of the installation costs would be fair 
in the circumstances.
Creation have agreed to pay Mr S £650 for the cost of eating out whilst the kitchen was left 
unfinished. That was agreed earlier but if it transpires, as Mr S says, that the £650 was 
never paid, Creation should add interest from the date it should have been paid (the date 
remedial work completed) until the date of settlement.
Creation have also agreed to pay £831 (calculated from the quote Mr S provided, less £180 
for lighting, and less the refunded amount Mr S has already received for the shelving the 
merchant provided in error) so that Mr S can have the floating shelves fitted. I’d agree with 
that solution.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Refund 75% of the £2,647.78 installation cost to reflect the poor standard of 
installation, breach of contract, and the delay. Add 8% simple interest per year from 
the date the finance was paid to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr S his eating out costs of £650 (unless this has already been paid), plus 8% 
simple interest per year from the date the remedial work was completed to the date 
of settlement.

Pay the difference of £831.00 so that Mr S can have the floating shelves fitted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3727810
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) is holding him liable for a 
loan in his name which he says he was scammed into taking out.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In September 2020, a Creation loan was taken out in Mr L’s name and credited to his bank 
account.  The loan funds were then transferred out to a third party.  Mr L argues that as he 
fell victim to a scam – the circumstances of which led to the loan being taken out in his name 
– the loan should be written off.  Creation carried out an investigation and decided to hold Mr 
L liable for the loan.  Unhappy with this, Mr L raised a complaint which he also referred to 
our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Mr L did not 
accept the investigator’s findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
The first thing I need to determine in this case is whether Mr L consented to the loan in 
question being taken out in his name.  That is, whether he took the loan out himself, or 
provided consent to another to do so on his behalf.
Based on Mr L’s submissions to Creation and this Service, he accepts that he provided the 
necessary details to a third party so they could take out the loan in his name.  Moreover, the 
loan funds were transferred out to a third party and Mr L made several repayments towards 
the loan thereafter (albeit – as Mr L says – before he knew he was being scammed).
I acknowledge Mr L says that a third party applied for the loan in his name and that he 
neither read nor signed the loan agreement as the third party had access to his emails.  I 
also acknowledge that Mr L says he was ultimately manipulated into applying for the loan by 
someone he had trusted: a person he had met on an online dating app who introduced him 
to a ‘financial adviser’ from a brokerage firm.
However, whilst Mr L may well be a victim of a scam – this does not negate the fact that he 
provided necessary details to a third party to enable them to take out a loan in his name; the 
funds of which Mr L transferred out to a third party.  Based on the evidence before me, there 
is nothing to suggest Creation was aware that Mr L was being scammed at the time the loan 
was taken out.  Therefore, it would not be fair in the circumstances for me to direct Creation 
to write off the loan Mr L consented to being taken out in his name.
Mr L has also raised concerns about Creation’s level of customer service – particularly how 
this has impacted his credit score.  From what I can see, Creation has accepted it caused 
some delays in its handling of this matter.  However, I have not seen any evidence to 
support how these delays impacted Mr L’s credit score.  Further, whilst there have been 
some delays, these have had no bearing on the outcome Creation reached regarding Mr L’s 
fraud claim – which, for the reasons already given, I am persuaded was a fair outcome.  
Therefore, I do not find that compensation is justified for this complaint point.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that Creation has acted fairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint, so I will not be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3730488
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss Q complains that the car she acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been laid out by the 
investigator, so I won't repeat them again here. I will focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:

Creation Consumer Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss Q at the point of sale. 
Whether or not it was satisfactory will depend on several factors, including age and 
mileage as well as the price that was paid for it.

Satisfactory quality also covers durability. This means the components within the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time – but exactly how long that 
time is will also depend on several factors.

The car supplied to Miss Q in October 2020 was around seven and a half years old 
and had been driven approximately 50,000 miles. 

On 2 May 2021 the car broke down. Miss Q paid £112 for a diagnosis of the problem. 
I’ve seen a copy of the invoice which included a summary of the work. It says 
“suspect new engine and new turbo required”. At this point Miss Q had driven the car 
less than 5,000 miles since she acquired it. I don’t know how the car was driven by 
the previous owner(s) or Miss Q nor do I know how well the car was maintained but 
generally, with average use and maintenance, I would expect a car engine and the 
turbo to last significantly longer than 55,000 miles. So it does seem likely, given Miss 
Q added under 5,000 miles, that the problem(s) with the engine would have been 
present or developing at the point of sale. And I’m persuaded it’s likely the engine 
wasn’t durable and hadn’t lasted a reasonable amount of time. 

The dealer is entitled to one opportunity to repair the fault and it agreed to arrange for 
a new engine to be fitted at this stage. And it agreed that Miss Q would need to pay 
£1,200 towards the cost of this new engine, a total of £1,922.10. 

Creation said Miss Q would need to contact the installers directly to see if the works 
were covered by any kind of warranty or guarantee. It said Creation or the dealership 
could not be held liable for works carried out by a third party. But from the copy of the 
invoice provided it seems the dealer arranged for the engine to be replaced with the 
third-party garage. And the dealer itself didn't charge Miss Q for the whole cost of the 
engine replacement. This indicates to me it accepted at least partial responsibility for 
the engine failure.

On 8 August the car broke down again. It was recovered and Miss Q was told the 
engine had been badly fitted with a leak from the water outlet on the engine turbo. 

On 13 August the car was inspected by an independent engineer, at the request of 
Creation. In summary the engineer said:
o
"We consider the engine issue is a result of the previous engine replacement. 
o
We do consider the condition to be a failed repair in the vehicle’s history. 
o
We do not consider the fault to be wear and tear related or maintenance that 
has developed since purchase. 
o
Faults are present which require further investigation into the coolant system 
in order to resolve them. 
o
In our opinion the previous engine repairer is responsible for the cost of 
repairs to this vehicle." 

Despite having the engineer's report and its conclusions Creation rejected Miss Q's 
claim. It said the dealer had sent it pictures of the car showing significant impact 
damage to the front nearside. It said due to the proximity of this damage to the 
affected areas of the cooling system the dealer believed this was the cause of the 
cooling issues which lead to the engine seizing up. But the damage to the vehicle 
occurred prior to the inspection from the engineer. No mention of this damage is on 
the engineer's report. And the engineer was quite clear on the report that it 
considered the engine issue was because of the previous engine replacement. 

I think it reasonable to expect that had the engineer suspected the impact damage 
had caused the engine issues he would have noted this on his report. I'm persuaded 
by the technical evidence provided in this report that the engine issue was caused by 
the failed engine replacement completed by the third party, which was commissioned 
by the dealer. As the repair itself has failed, I’m satisfied Miss Q should be allowed to 
reject the car.

As the car has sustained external damage (unrelated to the engine issues), per the 
terms and conditions Miss Q is liable to pay for the repair to this damage. 

Miss Q has paid several invoices related to repairs and reports. As these costs are 
related to the car being of unsatisfactory quality I’m satisfied they should be 
refunded. 

The problems with the original engine and the replacement engine have caused Miss 
Q inconvenience and stress. I consider £200 in compensation to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;

Arrange for collection of the vehicle at no cost to Miss Q;

If the car is returned with damage to the front, Creation would be entitled to charge 
for the cost of repairing this (but only this damage and nothing relating to the issues 
set out in the independent report);

Reimburse Miss Q £1,200 for the cost of the failed engine repair in May 2021*;

Refund Miss Q one monthly instalment for May 2021, to account for the time she was 
unable to use the car*;

Refund Miss Q any payments made since August 2021, to reflect the time she’s been 
unable to use the car*;

Reimburse Miss Q £500 for the deposit she paid towards the agreement*;

Reimburse Miss Q £112.80 and £240 for the two independent inspection reports she 
arranged*;

Reimburse Miss Q £70 for the cost she incurred when the vehicle was towed*;

Pay Miss Q £200 compensation; and

Remove the agreement from Miss Q’s credit file.
*8% simple interest should be added, from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must put 
things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3760863
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation (“Creation”) sold 
her outstanding debt to another business without telling. In doing so, they transferred a 
higher debt than the settlement figure she’d previously been given.   
What happened
In July 2019, Miss A applied for and was granted a loan with Creation. The loan was 
repayable in equal fixed monthly instalments over a term of five years.
During the first half of 2020, Miss A’s income was adversely impacted by the effects of the 
global pandemic. Creation agreed to deferral of her monthly repayments for a total of six 
months. This was followed by a further period of six months where Miss A didn’t have to 
make any payments and no additional interest and charges were applied to her debt. 
Following a review of Miss A’s financial situation in June 2021, a temporary payment plan 
was agreed with Miss A, requiring her to make monthly repayments of £250.
In August 2021, Miss A contacted Creation to obtain a settlement figure for her loan. 
Although she was provided with this, the loan wasn’t settled. Shortly after, Creation sold 
Miss A’s remaining debt to another business. But when that business contacted Miss A, the 
amount they said she owed was about £2,000 more than the settlement figure she’d been 
given.
Miss A didn’t think the amount she was told she owed was right. She also didn’t think 
Creation had acted fairly when they sold her debt. Particularly as they hadn’t told her about 
this. So, she complained to Creation. Miss A says Creation didn’t respond to her complaint 
until December 2021 when they apologised for the delay.
Miss A says the other business was suggesting she needed to make payments at a level 
significantly more than she’d agreed with Creation. That business agreed to put her 
repayments on hold while the discrepancy was resolved. 
Miss A called Creation again in January 2022 to see what was happening. She was told her 
complaint was no longer being looked into and she’d need to email them again for her case 
to be reopened, which she did.
Unhappy and concerned with Creation’s lack of response, Miss A referred her complaint to 
this service. In February 2022, Creation wrote to Miss A in response to her complaint. They 
didn’t think they’d done anything wrong as the terms and conditions of her loan allowed them 
to sell it on in these circumstances. Creation also told Miss A the settlement figure included a 
rebate of interest and charges on the basis the loan was repaid early. But as this didn’t 
happen, the full outstanding debt was sold.
Miss A wasn’t happy with Creation’s response. So, our investigator looked at all the 
circumstances and evidence available. Having done so, our investigator didn’t think Creation 
had done anything wrong. Miss A didn’t agree with our investigator’s findings. She thought it 
unfair they’d sold her debt without her knowledge. She didn’t believe she owed the interest 
difference from the settlement figure she’d been given. She was also unhappy with 
Creation’s delay in responding to her complaints.
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, Miss A’s complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Miss A’s referral to this service relates to the way Creation handled her complaint. In 
particular delays receiving their response. I do appreciate Miss A’s frustrations. However, I 
must set an expectation about what I can and can’t consider here.
The rules and guidance about what this service can consider are set out in the FCA’s 
Handbook – in particular the Dispute Resolution Rules (“DISP”). These say that this service 
is only able to consider complaints about a financial service – in this case the sale of Miss 
A’s loan and her concerns about how much she owes. The DISP rules don’t allow this 
service to consider complaints about the way in which Creation handled Miss A’s concerns 
as that isn’t in itself a financial service – albeit it stems from one. So, I’m only able to 
consider the impact on Miss A regarding the sale of her debt and the amount Creation say 
she owes.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in April 2020 which 
explained what they expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the global pandemic. They asked businesses to consider payment deferrals of up to 
three months under regulated credit agreements. The FCA said their guidance applied 
where consumers were already experiencing or reasonably expect to experience temporary 
payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
Further guidance was issued by the FCA in July 2020. This extended these measures, and 
where consumers were still struggling due to the global pandemic, businesses were advised 
to freeze or reduce their payments for a further three months.
In September 2020, the FCA announced that the support scheme would change from the 
end of October 2020. From then, firms could continue to support customers in difficulty. But 
it was down to their discretion and customers’ circumstances. Reporting to credit reference 
agencies was reintroduced for people that had already had the maximum payment deferrals.
Creation responded to Miss A’s circumstances by agreeing payment deferrals for the 
maximum six months. Just before that ended, Creation wrote to Miss A. They wanted to 
review her circumstances. Having done so, they agreed that no payments needed to be 
made for a further period of 6 months. During this time, no additional interest or charges 
were added to Miss A’s debt. 
I’ve carefully considered the support provided by Creation here. I wouldn’t expect the initial 
six months of payment deferrals to have negatively impacted Miss A’s loan agreement or 
credit file. And I can’t see they did. I think the solutions agreed by Creation appear to meet 
all of the FCA’s guidance and requirements. However, the subsequent six-month agreement 
did mean Miss A was now in arrears, despite Creation agreeing to that.
Once that agreement finished, Creation wrote to Miss A on multiple occasions. They wanted 
to review her circumstances again in order to agree a way forward. Creation’s records show 
Miss A responded to their letters and in June 2021 a payment plan was agreed. But as 
arrears had already arisen, Creation decided to sell Miss A’s debt to another business.
I’ve carefully considered the loan agreement between Creation and Miss A. Part 10 says 
“We may assign or securitise any of our rights under this agreement and/or any amounts 
owing under this agreement without notice to you”. In simple terms, this allows Creation to 
sell Miss A’s outstanding debt. This is commonplace and is generally used where there’s 
been a breach of the original agreement. And because Miss A had arrears due to the 
subsequent six-month suspension of repayments, I believe Creation were able to do that. 
Creation have explained that the settlement figure given to Miss A in August 2021 reflected a 
rebate of interest and charges in the event Miss A settled the loan early. But she didn’t do 
that here. Fixed term loans of this nature normally include the interest for the full term 
calculated at the outset. Repayments are then calculated by dividing the total amount 
(including interest) over the term of the loan. So, when Creation sold Miss A’s debt, the 
figure transferred was based upon that total figure less anything Miss A had already repaid. 
As Miss A didn’t repay the debt early, the rebate didn’t apply. So, I can’t reasonably find that 
Creation did anything wrong here.
I’ve also considered what happened to cause the business purchasing Miss A’s debt to 
request repayments at a level higher than those agreed by Creation. Creation had confirmed 
the correct monthly payment to the purchasing business. So, from the evidence I’ve seen, I 
can’t reasonably say that this was due to something Creation did wrong.
I appreciate Miss A did wait an extended period before receiving a response to her complaint 
to Creation. But as I’ve explained, this is not something I’m able to consider. And as I’ve also 
explained above, I haven’t found any evidence to suggest Creation did anything wrong or 
treated Miss A unfairly or unreasonably. So, while I do realise Miss A will be disappointed, I 
won’t be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don’t uphold Miss A’s complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3762155
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 25 March 2022, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Creation. He paid an advance payment of £5,000 and the agreement was for £38,995 
over 49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £601.79, and a final payment of £17,492 if 
Mr H wanted to keep the car. At the time of supply, the car was around one and a half years 
old and had done 14,570 miles.
On 13 April 2022, Mr H complained to both the dealership and Creation that the car had 
developed an ABS fault. The dealership couldn’t determine a fault, and the car was 
examined under the manufacturer’s warranty. Again, no fault could be found, and the car 
was returned to Mr H on 22 April 2022. 39 miles later the car broke down and had to be 
recovered. It was examined again under warranty, and an issue with the ABS was found and 
fixed. The car was returned to Mr H on 6 May 2022.
On 9 May 2022, the engine management light (EML) came on, and the warranty company 
reset nine fault codes. But the EML came on again after one mile. So, on 10 May 2022, Mr H 
asked to reject the car. The dealership refused but offered to buy the car back for around 
£5,000 less than Mr H paid for it around 10-weeks earlier. Mr H didn’t accept this offer and 
the car broke down again on 24 May 2022 due to another fault with the ABS.
Mr H had an independent report done on the car, and was told that, if it were to be repaired, 
there would be a substantial delay while waiting for parts. And he felt that he had no option 
but to sell the car, as he needed it to be able to get to work. On 31 May and 1 June 2022, 
the dealership’s solicitors wrote to Mr H to tell him they considered the issues with the car to 
be “merely trivial”, that his claim was “wholly unproven“, and that he had no right of rejection.
Mr H sold the car for £37,283.90, which was a loss of £6,711.10 on what he’d paid for it. He 
also needed to pay Creation £1,033 for the shortfall in the agreement, bringing his total loss 
to £7,744.10. And he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said the evidence showed there was likely to be a fault with the car that was 
present when it was supplied to Mr H. And this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. 
She said that, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), Creation were allowed one 
chance to repair the car, which they’d had. And whether or not each breakdown had been 
caused by the same underlying issue wasn’t relevant. What’s more, Mr H had only been able 
to do 1,300 miles in the car, while suffering multiple breakdowns, and he hadn’t had much 
use of the car since 13 April 2022. So, she also didn’t think the car was sufficiently durable. 
Because of this, the investigator said that, under circumstances like this, Mr H should usually 
be allowed to reject the car. However, as the car had already been sold, she thought that 
Creation should treat the agreement as it the car had been rejected. And they should refund 
all payments Mr H had made since 13 April 2022; reimburse him the £7,744.10 financial loss 
he’d incurred; and refund him £971.05 additional expenses he’d incurred relating to tax and 
insurance while the car was off the road, recovery costs, and inspection costs.
The investigator also said that Creation should pay statutory interest on the refunds; pay Mr 
H an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience he’d been caused; and remove any 
adverse credit, relating to this agreement, from Mr H’s credit file. Mr H agreed with the 
investigator, but Creation didn’t respond to her view. Because of this, this matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, Creation are responsible. What’s 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr H to show it was present when the 
car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
It’s not disputed that Mr H had problems with the car shortly after it was supplied to him. I’ve 
seen an invoice for the repair that took place on 4 May 2022, which confirms that there were 
“multiple ABS related warnings in display” and there was a broken wire in the ABS module. 
The wiring fault was fixed under warranty. However, a breakdown report dated 24 May 2022 
confirmed that the mechanic “found loose wiring to abs module.”
I’ve also seen a copy of an independent report on the car, dated 16 June 2022. At this point 
the car had done 15,901 miles – 1,331 miles more than when it was supplied to Mr H. This 
said that the engineer has “checked wiring to ABS module and found connector had melted. 
Vehicle will require new engine bay harness and possibly ABS module.” Mr H was charged 
£192 for this report.
In their response to Mr H’s complaint, Creation have said they would need to inspect the car 
to “confirm if it is a second fault” and that “the dealer has a right to repair if it is a different 
fault.” However, section 24(5) of the CRA says:
A consumer who has the right to a price reduction and the final right to reject may 
exercise one (not both), and may only do so in one of these situations – 
a) after one repair or one replacement, the goods do not confirm to contract
And the explanatory notes for the CRA make it clear that “if the consumer’s goods continue 
to be substandard after the consumer  has … already undergone one repair or replacement 
of the goods by the trader … the consumer may … reject the goods and obtain a refund.” 
It's clear that the CRA only allows a single chance at repair, and not one chance to repair 
each fault. And this single chance of repair took place on 4 May 2022, when an ABS fault 
was fixed. It’s also clear that this repair failed because the car broke down again on 24 May 
2022. As it happens this was also with an ABS fault, but the CRA doesn’t require these faults 
to be linked. As such, I’m satisfied that Mr H has the right to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr H was in possession of the car from 25 March to 5 August 2022, when it was sold. In a 
situation like this, I’d expect Mr H to return the car to Creation, and for them to unwind the 
agreement. But this isn’t possible, as the car has been sold, and the agreement repaid in full. 
As such, while the car can no longer be rejected, I’d expect Creation to treat the agreement 
as if it had.
Where a car had been rejected, I’d expect a financial business to refund any deposit paid, as 
well as clearing the remaining amount on the agreement at no cost to the customer. So, for 
Creation to put Mr H back in the position he should’ve been, had rejection been accepted on 
10 May 2022 (when Mr H asked for this), I expect Creation to refund Mr H the difference 
between what he paid for the car and the sale price, plus the additional amount he was 
required to pay them to repay the agreement in full – a total of £7,744.10.
While I would expect Mr H to pay for the car while he had use of it, I also need to take into 
consideration the period when it was in his possession but undrivable due to the faults. Mr H 
said that he had no issues with the car for the first two weeks, that it was in for inspection 
and repair for around six weeks, and the car broke down completely on 24 May 2022. As I’ve 
not seen anything to show me that Mr H was provided with alternate transportation while the 
car was in for inspection/repair, I’m in agreement with the investigator that Mr H should only 
pay for the first two weeks of use, plus the few days use he had until 24 May 2022. As such, 
Creation should refund him any payments he made after 13 April 2022.
I’m also in agreement that Mr H should be refunded for the insurance and road tax payments 
he’d made while the car wasn’t in use, plus the cost of the recovery and inspection he paid 
for. And I’ve seen evidence that this comes to a total of £971.50.
Finally, Mr H has suffered a substantial amount of distress and inconvenience with what’s 
happened, given the multiple breakdowns, the multiple trips to garages, and the sheer 
number of times he’s needed to chase or liaise with multiple parties. And this has had an 
impact on his mental health, resulting in him having to take time off work and being 
prescribed medication. Given this, I’m also in agreement that Creation should pay Mr H an 
additional £500 compensation.
So, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

pay Mr H £7,744.10 to put him back in the position he would’ve been had they 
allowed the car to be rejected;

refund all the payments Mr H has made after 13 April 2022;

reimburse Mr H £971.50 for the road tax and insurance he paid while the car was off 
the road, for the cost of recovery, and for the cost of the inspection on the car;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above, calculated from the date Mr H made 
the payments to the date of the refund †;

remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr H’s credit file; 
and

pay Mr H an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience he’s suffered as a 
result of being supplied a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality. 
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr H’s complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3767157
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms K’s complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd continued to collect direct debit 
payments for goods she’d bought on a “buy now, pay later” basis – even though she’d made 
full payment before the end of the interest free period.
What happened
In summer 2021, Ms K bought £598.99 worth of electrical goods.  The retailer offered a “buy 
now, pay later” option through Creation, which allowed customers to pay nothing for six 
months.  After that time, they could either pay off what they owed – without being charged 
interest - or Creation would start taking monthly payments by direct debit.
In December 2021, Ms K made a payment of £599 to pay the credit off before the monthly 
payments became due.  But, in early January, she received an email advising her that 
Creation would start collecting monthly direct debit payments of £34.78 later that month.
Ms K didn’t want her credit scored to be damaged, so she allowed the direct debit to be 
collected.  But she contacted the retailer about what had happened.  The retailer referred her 
to Creation and Ms K complained to them in early February.  She provided confirmation of 
the payment she’d made in December.
Creation responded to the complaint, saying they’d been able to identify a payment had 
been attempted in early December but that hadn’t been successful.  And they said they’d 
received no correspondence from Ms K.  Creation rejected her complaint on that basis.  But 
they said that they’d reopen it if Ms K could provide further evidence of the payment she’d 
made and provided an email address for Ms K to send that evidence to.
Ms K wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response and brought her complaint to our service.  
Our investigator requested Creation provide their business file and their comments on the 
complaint.
In response, Creation said they’d reviewed their accounts again and had found an amount in 
a suspense account which may match Ms K’s payment.  But they said it had no reference 
details to allow them to allocate it.  And the account it had come from wasn’t in Ms K’s name.  
So she’d need to provide further details to satisfy Creation it did in fact relate to her 
agreement..  Finally, Creation said they’d not received information from Ms K, as it hadn’t 
been sent to the right email address.
Following the investigator’s enquiries, Ms K confirmed that the payment had been made 
from a different account, held in her married name.  The investigator passed on the details 
and Creation confirmed they’d verified the payment in late September 2022.
The investigator was then able to consider Ms K’s complaint.  Having done that, they 
concluded Creation needed to do more to resolve it.  They said Creation should apply the 
£599 to Ms K’s account and backdate it to the date it was received, with any interest or 
charges being refunded.  Any resulting overpayment should be refunded to Ms K, any 
collection activity ceased, and any adverse information recorded on her credit file be 
removed.
Neither party confirmed they agreed with the investigator’s view.  So I’ve been asked to 
make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I’m upholding Ms K’s complaint.  I’ll explain why.
My role is to decide whether a business has treated its customer fairly and – if they haven’t – 
what they need to do to put things right.  This involves (amongst other things) putting the 
customer back in the position they would have been if nothing had gone wrong.  I’ve thought 
how that applies in this case.
I’ve seen evidence which shows Ms K made the payment she said she did in December 
2021.  And I’ve seen bank statements which show direct debits were also collected between 
January and September 2022.  So I’m satisfied Ms K paid twice for the same items.  
I can see that Ms K did raise a complaint about this promptly.  She complained that it took 
Creation some weeks to address that.  But businesses have eight weeks to provide a final 
response to their customer once a complaint is made.  So I don’t think there was any delay 
here.
Creation said in their response they couldn’t find Ms K’s statement and asked her to provide 
further information and “further proof of the payment made”.  But they didn’t explain what 
that further proof was.  And, although they provided further details to us when commenting 
on Ms K’s complaint, I can’t see that was provided directly to Ms K.  
So, while I’ve noted the matter was also delayed by Ms K sending information to an incorrect 
email address, I think Creation did cause some of the delay in resolving the payment issue.  
It’s fair that’s put right.
Putting things right
As I’ve mentioned, it’s fair and reasonable that Creation should put Ms K back in the position 
she would have been in, had nothing gone wrong.  That means that they should credit Ms 
K’s account with the £599 she sent them in December 2021.  And they should refund her 
any payments over and above this amount she’s made towards that loan.  
Creation should also refund Ms K any interest and charges applied on the basis the loan 
hadn’t been paid off within the “buy now, pay later” period, because I’m satisfied it was.  And 
they should pay Ms K simple interest, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, on the 
monthly direct debit payments collected, from the date they were taken until they are 
refunded as this was the period Ms K was without the funds.
Ms K has also said that Creation have chased her for payments and have made adverse 
entries on her credit file.  As I’m satisfied she made full payment within the “buy now, pay 
later” period, it’s fair that Creation cease any activity to recover this debt.  And that they 
correct any information on Ms K’s credit report which indicates it hasn’t been paid in full. 
Finally, Ms K has told us she feels this situation has caused her stress. .  I’ve thought very 
carefully about this point.  But I don’t think it’s fair for me to award compensation for this.
While I appreciate what Ms K has said, I’m satisfied Creation addressed her complaint when 
it was brought to their attention.  They indicated they’d consider it further if Ms K provided 
more information and gave her the contact details to do that.
I don’t think it’s reasonable to say Creation should have been able to match the payment to 
Ms K’s account without more information because they had no reference details to assist 
them and the payment didn’t come from an account in Ms K’s name.  Unfortunately, Ms K 
sent further information to another email address.  That meant the information didn’t reach 
Creation, who heard nothing more on the complaint until they were contacted by our 
investigator.  
I can’t hold Creation responsible for that.  So, while I think they do need to take steps to put 
things right, I don’t think they need to pay Ms K compensation as well.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m upholding Ms K’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd and directing Creation to:

Credit Ms K’s account with the £599 she paid them in December 2021;

Refund Ms K any payments over and above this amount she paid them in respect of 
the loan, together with any interest and charges that were applied;

Pay Ms K simple interest, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, on the monthly 
direct debit payments collected, from the date they were taken until they are refunded 
to her;

Cease any collections activity in relation to the loan and remove any adverse entries 
relating to it from Ms K’s credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3771249
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t provide him with clear 
information about his Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) special offer date. Because of this, Mr D 
missed the BNPL end date and was charged interest under the agreement.
What happened
In May 2020 Mr D purchased goods from a retailer and entered into a BNPL agreement with 
Creation.
Mr D selected paperless statements at the point of sale. He received emails which told him 
that his payment date was 1 March 2021. Because of this, Mr D assumed that he had to pay 
the full cash price of the goods by this date.
Mr D was charged interest before this date. He raised a complaint with Creation. In 
response, Creation said the BNPL special offer date was 16 February 2021, and that the 
payment due date shown as 1 March 2021 was the scheduled payment date for the direct 
debit.
Mr D felt that this was misleading. He told Creation that he was prepared to settle the 
account immediately but says that the long drawn out complaints procedure meant he was 
charged further interest.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She 
said that the email sent by Creation to Mr D made it clear that the payment due date and the 
BNPL date were two different dates. The investigator didn’t think that the information 
provided by Creation was misleading. In relation to the length of time it took to respond to Mr 
D’s complaint, the investigator said Creation had provided its response within the prescribed 
time limit.
Mr D didn’t agree. He said the emails he’d received from Creation were misleading.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve looked at the copy of the email sent to Mr D by Creation dated 12 November 2020. This 
states that the payment due date is the date when the first direct debit payment will be due. 
The email goes on to say that the BNPL date would have been provide at the point of sale, 
and that details of the BNPL end date are also available on the online statements.
I’ve thought about whether the email was misleading. On balance, I don’t think it was. I’m 
satisfied that the email makes it clear that the BNPL end date and the payment due date 
were clearly stated to be two different dates. I’m also satisfied that the email provided 
sufficient information to enable Mr D to check the BNPL date on his online statement.
I’ve also looked at the statements which were available for Mr D to view on his online 
account. These statements set out the BNPL end date.
I appreciate that Mr D found the emails confusing. However, I don’t think the emails were 
deliberately misleading. I’m satisfied that Mr D was given clear information about the BNPL 
end date.
I’ve taken into account what Mr D has said about the complaints procedure being drawn out. 
He’s said that the delay caused him to incur additional interest. I’ve thought about this, but I 
can see that Creation responded to Mr D’s complaint within the relevant timescales. So I’m 
unable to say that Creation has treated Mr D unfairly here.
I understand that this isn’t the outcome Mr D hoped for. However, based on what I’ve seen, 
and for the reasons I’ve given I’m unable to say that Creation provided misleading 
information to Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3771918
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty carpet
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H bought a carpet from a company I will call S. It cost £1006 and was 
funded by a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation.
The carpet became discoloured and Mr H made a section 75 claim to Creation. It rejected 
the claim and said that the manufacturer did not consider there was any manufacturing fault. 
It suggested he get an independent report if he wished to pursue his claim.
Mr H brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. He noted the photographs and testimony 
supplied by Mr H and concluded that carpet had worn inside 12 months and was 
discoloured. He noted Creation had said the merchant had consulted the manufacturer who 
sated there was no manufacturing fault. However, Creation didn’t supply details of the 
manufacturer’s conclusion until after our investigator had issued his view.
This information was not sufficient to persuade our investigator to change his opinion so the 
matter has been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said I had considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the supplier’s part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:

Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and

A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I said there was no dispute that the chain was intact and so I had to consider if there had 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
I reviewed the photographs provided by Mr H and it did seem that there was some 
discolouration. I couldn’t tell from these if the carpet was showing further signs of wear such 
that the tacks underneath in places can be felt underfoot as he has claimed.
I also reviewed the evidence supplied by Creation. I gathered a representative from the 
merchant inspected the carpet and reported as follows:
“The carpet is starting to flatten, felt and mat in the main walkways and turn points, this is 
pretty much in line with expectations of the type and age of the product, though the customer 
says he asked for a hard wearing carpet in store. There are patches which do look like the 
colour is starting to change, very difficult to pick up in a photo but it's not through dirt (the 
carpets are well cared for and the house very clean with shoes removed before entry)”
The merchant also said:
“The manufacturers confirmed that the concerns raised by the customer were not due to a 
fault/defect with the product and the carpet was reacting normally as advised in the surveyor 
report. The change of appearance in the carpet is due to the way in which the pile has 
settled unevenly with use and can show in some areas more than others. This is caused by 
the heavy traffic concentrated onto a small area coupled with the twisting of feet as you turn.
All carpets have places where it is walked on more than others. This is a normal 
characteristic of any carpet and pile reversal and pile compression is not considered a 
manufacturing defect and is a natural occurrence in any carpet with some showing the effect 
more than others.”
Creation had said it is open to Mr H to provide an independent report if he disagrees. I didn’t 
consider this was appropriate. He raised the matter within six months and the onus is on the 
merchant or Creation to demonstrate the carpet is satisfactory. It hadn’t provided an 
independent report. What it had done is inspect the carpet and note there are colour 
changes. I presumed the inspector has some knowledge of carpets and would have been 
able to identify faults. I also noted that he has said that it is difficult to capture the 
discolouration in the photos.
I said that we had the person who inspected the carpet and Mr H both expressing some 
concern about the quality and the change in colour. Set against that we had the 
manufacturer, presumably looking at the photos reaching a different conclusion.
I thought that on balance I could only conclude the carpet was not fit for purpose and Mr H 
was entitled to some redress. Our investigator had suggested the carpet be repaired or 
replaced.
I wasn’t sure a repair was possible and replacement may not be the best solution. Therefore 
I thought rejection and a refund of the money paid may be preferable. Mr H has had the use 
of the carpet for almost three years and I thought some deduction to take into account that 
use was necessary. I thought a figure of £250 would be fair. I also thought a payment of 
£100 to address the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr H is merited.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation has not responded and Mr H confirmed he accepted my proposal and was happy to 
take the money. As such my provisional decision remains unchanged.
Putting things right
Mr H should be allowed to reject the carpet and receive a refund of the cost less £250. He 
should also receive compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to allow him to reject the carpet and end the agreement with nothing further to pay. It should 
refund all payments made to date less £250 to reflect the use he has had of it. It should also 
pay him £100 compensation and remove any adverse entry it may have made on his credit 
file. If Creation wishes the carpet to be returned it should arrange for this to happen at no 
cost to Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3773413
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss R complains about adverse information recorded on her credit file by Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
Miss R entered into a finance agreement with Creation in August 2021, with the first monthly 
payment due to be collected by direct debit (DD) from her bank – which I’ll refer to as T – the 
following month. That payment and the one for October 2021 were received by Creation.
When the payment for November 2021 was missed, Creation wrote to Miss R to say it would 
re-apply for the payment within seven days. Payments resumed until there were further 
missed payments by February 2022. Creation wrote to Miss again that month, as it had in 
November 2021. It wrote to her again in April and May 2021 to notify her, among other 
things, that payments were still overdue and needed to be made. 
Miss R and Creation subsequently entered into a temporary arrangement for ten months to 
enable her to bring the account up to date. 
Miss R raised a complaint, saying Creation’s actions had negatively impacted on her credit 
file causing her worry and, potentially, financial loss. Creation investigated Mr R’s complaint 
but didn’t uphold it. It believed it had attempted to collect payments as per the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement and as per the DD details Miss R had provided when 
entering into it. Creation also felt it had given her adequate notice of issues with the DD and 
given her sufficient opportunity to resolve the matter with T.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but didn’t recommend that it should be upheld. They 
felt Creation had been entitled to notify the credit reference agencies about the payment 
issues as it had done. The investigator didn’t think Creation could have told Miss R about the 
missed payments any sooner than it had.
Because Miss R wasn’t prepared to accept the investigator’s findings, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss R wants answers to certain questions she’s raised. Although I’ve 
considered them, I’m not required to respond to them all in setting out this decision and I’ve 
not attempted to do so. Nor have I made direct findings on the actions of T, which is a 
different financial business to Creation. Instead, I’ve focussed on addressing the key issues 
that go to the heart of the complaint about Creation. 
Having done so, I’ve decided to not uphold this complaint. I’ll explain why.
It’s not in dispute that the payment for November 2021 failed. Miss R accepts she received 
Creation’s letter of that month telling her this. As a result, she was able to bring the account 
up to date which is how it remained for the next couple of months.
There’s some uncertainty as to how the initial DDs were collected given, among other things, 
Miss R’s bank has confirmed it doesn’t accept instructions to pay DDs from the account she 
held. I can’t say for sure how that happened either. That might be something for Miss R to 
take up with T. Although I’m satisfied Creation was entitled to use the bank details Miss R 
provided when she entered into the finance agreement. I think it was reasonable for it to 
have done so in the circumstances.
Miss R didn’t hear from Creation about any account arrears again until February 2022. Its 
first letter indicated her DD had failed. A further letter sent the next day said she’d missed 
payments from December 2021 and January 2022. 
In March 2022 Creation told Miss R that T had informed it that the DD set up for the finance 
agreement had been cancelled. Creation told Miss R that it was a requirement of the 
agreement that a DD was in place and that one needed to be set up without delay to avoid 
missed or late payment fees. Chaser letters were sent to Miss R in April and early May 2022.  
By mid-May 2022 Creation and Miss R had agreed to enter into a temporary arrangement for 
ten months to enable her to bring the account up to date.  
Miss R’s queried whether she did in fact miss any payments as stated by Creation. Having 
carefully reviewed the information provided by both parties, I’ve concluded that she did. For 
example, the list of account transactions show payments being collected in September and 
October 2021. They also show DD reversals in November 2021 – payment for which Miss R 
subsequently made by debit card – and further DD reversals in February 2022. 
I think some of the confusion’s arisen from Creation not being informed by T of issues with 
Miss R’s DD until February 2022. Some of the issues dated back to December 2021 and 
only came to light to Creation two months later. I can’t be sure of the reasons for the delay 
but I can’t see that Creation was made aware of any problems until just before it contacted 
Miss R in February 2022. So, I don’t think Creation was responsible for the missed payments 
or that it was at fault for any delay in making Miss R aware.
Arguably Creation could have explained things to Miss R more clearly than it did, but I don’t 
think it caused the issue in the first place or led her to the position she found herself in. And 
I’m glad to see that agreement was reached by the parties as to how to bring the account 
back up to date. 
So, taking everything into account, I believe Creation acted fairly by recording the missed 
payments on Miss R’s credit file as it did. I’m sorry for the problems this might have caused 
Miss R, but I don’t consider that Creation must do anything to put things right for her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I’ve decided to not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3777576
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality as it had been modified by a previous 
owner.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr C acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. The car was around four years old and had a mileage of 30,885.
In September 2020 Mr C contacted the previous owner of the car who informed him he had 
carried out modifications on the car. Mr C says he was aware that due to the modifications 
and remapping that any warranty on the car would be invalid.
Mr C says that later, the car required repairs to its underside and replacing the air intake 
which cost around £1,500. Mr C didn’t make a complaint about these repairs nor kept the 
receipts as he didn’t intend at that time to make a complaint to Creation or the supplying 
dealer.
However, in July 2022 Mr C complained to Creation about the condition of the car as it had 
developed further faults and required a new engine. Creation didn’t uphold Mr C’s complaint 
as it said he hadn’t provided evidence that any modifications had been undertaken to the car 
prior to its supply to him in August 2020. Creation also said that the car had passed its MOT 
shortly before its supply and that had there been modifications these would have been noted 
via emission testing. It said that if Mr C provided further evidence then it would review his 
complaint.
Mr C was unhappy at Creation’s response and complained to this service. He said that the 
cost of repairing the car wasn’t something he could afford and so currently he wasn’t able to 
use it. Mr C also said that the cause of the engine’s failure was due to the modifications 
which he hadn’t been aware of when he’d acquired the car. He said he wouldn’t have taken 
the car if he’d known.
Our investigator didn’t recommend Mr C’s complaint should be upheld. He said that although 
Mr C wasn’t able to provide evidence about the repairs or their cause in respect of the 
underside and air intake, he had provided invoices for the car requiring a new engine, so he 
was satisfied there was a current fault with the car. However, he said just because there was 
something wrong with the car didn’t mean that it hadn’t been of satisfactory quality at its 
point of supply to Mr C.
Our investigator said that the invoices for the repairs didn’t make any comment as to the 
cause of the engine failure nor did they record the car’s current mileage. But the evidence 
indicated that Mr C had been able to use the car for two years and drive over 13,000 miles in 
that time and, in light of that, our investigator said he thought it likely the issues with the car 
had developed after its point of supply to Mr C. And as engine failure can arise for a number 
of reasons there wasn’t sufficient evidence for him to say this was due to the car having 
been modified prior to Mr C acquiring it.
In respect of the car being modified, our investigator said looking at the timeline of events, 
while Mr C hadn’t been aware the car had been modified at its point of supply, he had 
become aware shortly afterwards and hadn’t raised any complaint. So, our investigator said 
he thought that had Mr C known about the modifications he would still have gone ahead and 
acquired the car.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that he hadn’t been asked to get 
proof that the car had been modified/re-mapped prior to its point of supply to him and it was 
unfair to expect him to do so. He said the dealership should have produced evidence about 
the inspection it had undertaken on the car before he’d acquired it. Mr C said passing an 
MOT didn’t mean the car hadn’t been modified. He said he had already provided enough to 
show the faults with the car.
Mr C also said he had booked an appointment with a garage specialising in this make of car 
when the ECU would be reset and he was hoping this would provide additional information 
as to the extent the vehicle had been modified.
Mr C said that it would be unusual for a car of this age and mileage and which hadn’t been 
modified to suffer engine failure.
As the parties weren’t able to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C hasn’t provided any new information, so I have made my decision based on the 
evidence that has already been provided.
When looking at this complaint, I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable. And where 
evidence is missing or contradictory then I need to decide what I think is the most likely 
thing to have happened.
Mr C has raised two issues in his complaint. Firstly, that the car he had acquired had been 
modified and he had not been made aware of that by the supplying dealer. I’ve also seen 
Mr C says that had he known about this then he wouldn’t have taken the car. The second 
issue is that the car, due to this modification wasn’t of satisfactory quality and has 
required a number of repairs including a new engine.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr C is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality. Creation may also be responsible for any statements made by the 
supplying dealer if Mr C relied on them when deciding to take the car.
While I don’t know how the car was advertised, I have seen that the supplying dealer 
queries whether the car had been modified prior to its point of supply to Mr C. It suggests 
that since Mr C didn’t raise a complaint until he had the car for around two years that he 
should provide proof of this. Mr C has provided screenshots of conversations he had with 
the previous owner via social media.
I agree the screenshots provided by Mr C of his contact with the previous owner would 
indicate some modifications were undertaken. But I don’t think it’s clear exactly what 
those entailed nor as to what was reverted/removed when the car was returned to the 
dealer when the credit agreement with that person ended. However, I think it would be fair 
to say that it is more likely than not that the car had been modified/remapped prior to the 
point of its supply to Mr C based on the evidence I have seen.
This would mean that the car that the car may have not been as described but for me to 
be satisfied a misrepresentation has occurred I would need evidence that there had been 
a false statement of fact made by the supplying dealer which had induced Mr C to enter 
into the agreement. Here I can’t reasonably say that, and I will explain why. 
I don’t know what was said between Mr C and the supplying dealership, but I don’t think 
it’s likely there was any conversation the car hadn’t been modified/remapped. And while I 
note Mr C said he wouldn’t have bought the car had he known about its past I’m afraid I 
can’t accept that. Mr C was made aware of the history of the car within one month of 
purchase but made no complaint even though he says he knew this would have 
invalidated the warranty. He even chose to pay for £1,500 worth of repairs without raising 
any issues with either the supplying dealer or Creation. So, I think it’s fair to say that Mr C 
wanted this car and even if the modifications carried out in the past had been raised, he 
would have still taken it. 
Looking at the second issue raised Mr C, I’ve seen Mr C feels strongly that the 
modifications made to the car’s engine has ultimately led to it requiring a new engine and 
that it isn’t of satisfactory quality as it isn’t as durable as would be reasonably expected.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was around four years old and had a mileage of 30,885. So, some 
issues of maintenance and repair would be expected over time. I’ve seen that Mr C 
says that the car underwent £1,500 worth of repairs prior to the new engine but I don’t 
know what those repairs were as no job cards or invoices can be provided. So, I can’t 
reasonably attach any weight to those earlier repairs because I don’t know the cause 
or exact nature of them.
However, I have seen the car required a new engine as the invoices for that work 
have been provided. So, I would accept the car developed a serious fault after Mr C 
had had it for two years and had driven around 13,000 miles in it. But just because 
the car had faults by July 2022 doesn’t mean it wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. Looking at the amount of time that had passed and the additional 
miles driven in the car by Mr C  I think it would be fair to say that any faults with the 
engine wouldn’t have been present or developing in August 2020. 
But even if the faults hadn’t been present or developing at the point of supply, I still 
need to consider whether the car was as reasonably durable as a reasonable person 
would have expected. Mr C says he has provided sufficient evidence to show the 
engine fault was due to the modifications and remap, but I disagree. There can be a 
number of reasons a car’s engine fails, and I would need to see some independent 
evidence that this car’s engine had been adversely affected by any modification or 
remapping it had undergone prior to Mr C’s acquiring it. I don’t have enough evidence 
to say that the engine failure was solely due to the modifications that had been 
carried out before the car was supplied to Mr C. While it is possible that modifications 
may lead to an engine wearing faster it’s also reasonable to say there could have 
been another cause. In light of the amount of time that has passed, I think it was fair 
for Creation to have asked Mr C to provide evidence as to the cause of the fault with 
the engine.
So, although the car of this age and mileage wouldn’t usually be expected to require 
a new engine, I can’t say this car wasn’t as reasonably durable as would be expected 
because I don’t know the cause of the engine fault.
I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr C but for the reasons set out 
above I’m not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, I’m not upholding Mr C’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3780449
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd incorrectly reported a loan as active on
his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr M had an account with Creation and settled the outstanding balance in April 2017. Mr M 
says he first contacted Creation to ensure his account was reported as settled and closed 
in 2019. The account continued to be reported as active on Mr M’s credit file despite his 
requests.
In June 2020 Creation sent Mr M an email that confirmed the account had closed in April 
2019 and that the status should be reflected on his credit file.
Mr M went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They initially upheld Mr M’s complaint and asked Creation to ensure his credit file 
accurately reflected the status of his account and pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Creation and Mr M both agreed, but he later found the account was 
still being reported as active on his credit file.
Creation later explained that whilst Mr M had cleared the balance in 2017 the account 
remained open and available for him to use. The investigator issued another set of findings 
and asked Creation to take steps to ensure the account was reflected as closed and settled 
on Mr M’s credit file. They also asked Creation to pay another £100, taking the total award 
to £200.
Mr M checked his credit file and said Creation had failed to correctly update it. Mr M asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve been brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree about the 
overall timeline. Mr M’s told us he’s been asking Creation to fix the errors on his credit file 
since 2019. And he’s forwarded emails with Creation from June 2020 which specifically say 
his account was closed in April 2019 and the credit reference agencies updated. So I can 
understand Mr M’s frustration that despite repeated attempts to get Creation to correct the 
account information on his credit file, it failed to do so.
Creation told Mr M his account had been closed. But more recently, it’s explained to us that 
the account remained open and available for use. I’m satisfied Mr M has made his wish to 
ensure the account is closed very clear over a period of around three years. And I agree 
with Mr M that the way his requests have been handled has caused him a considerable 
level of inconvenience over a sustained period.
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mr M’s complaint. Creation says Mr M’s account is 
now closed on its systems and that’s reflected on his credit file. Mr M has advised he’s yet 
to see evidence the amendments have been made. There’s often some lag in updating 
credit reference agencies. But I intend to tell Creation to ensure it correctly updates Mr M’s 
credit file as part of my final decision. If Mr M accepts, that will become legally binding on 
Creation. I hope that brings closure to the matter.
I know our investigator increased the award to £200 but I’m not persuaded that reflects 
the longstanding nature of Mr M’s requests. And I don’t think it reflects the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M either. So I also intend to tell Creation to pay 
Mr M a total of £400 for the dis view, that’s a fairer way to resolve Mr M’s complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mr M responded and said he wanted the account 
to be noted as settled and closed on his credit file. Mr M also said he didn’t agree that £400 
was fair compensation and wanted a fine to be imposed on Creation. 
Creation didn’t give us new information to consider.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M responded to say he wanted Creation to amend his credit file to reflect the account as 
closed and settled. As I noted in the provisional decision, if Mr M accepts, Creation will 
amend his credit file to show the account as closed and settled from April 2017. 
Mr M’s told us he doesn’t think the compensation of £400 is fair. I understand the issue has 
been ongoing for a long time and agree that Creation missed opportunities to resolve the 
situation. I’d like to assure Mr M I’ve read and considered everything he’s told us, including 
how the issues raised impacted him. Having done so again, I remain of the view that £400 
fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised on Mr M. I’m sorry to disappoint Mr M but I 
haven’t been persuaded to increase the level of compensation awarded. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn’t the industry regulator (that’s the Financial Conduct 
Authority) and he have no powers to fine or punish a business. Our awards focus on how to 
fairly resolve a complaint for the consumer. In this case, I remain of the view that updating 
Mr M’s credit file and paying him £400 is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
-
Ensure Mr M’s credit file is updated to show his account was settled and closed in
April 2017
-
Pay Mr M a total of £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any
compensation already paid)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3784796
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) put a default on his credit file 
with no notice. He would like the default removed, and compensation for not acting 
appropriately.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I won’t repeat the again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so  I have reached the following conclusions:-

There is no dispute that Creation didn’t send Mr F a default notice prior to putting a 
default on his credit file. Creation has evidenced it sent Mr F several letters about his 
account so says he would have been aware his account was in arrears. I don’t think 
Mr F disputes that, he knew his account was in arrears but was making regular 
payments towards the outstanding balance. But the last letter Creation sent 
confirmed Mr F was on a temporary repayment plan which would last for a certain 
time during which he would need to make regular repayments. It wasn’t a default 
notice.

Creation has told us there was an outstanding balance on the account and  a 
reduced payment plan in place when it sold the account on. It followed both its own 
processes and FCA rules in not defaulting the account until it was sold. It’s not for us 
to comment on Creation’s internal processes for managing debt. However, 
registering a default with credit reference agencies can  have a serious impact on a 
borrower. The relevant law and guidance says that  if a lender is intending to apply a 
default it should send relevant notice of this action and the steps needed to avoid 
this. Creation didn’t do this and I think it should have.

Mr F was making regular payments towards the debt – and these weren’t token 
payments. I think he was managing his debt responsibly and the outstanding amount 
wasn’t excessive.  So, had he received a default notice I think it’s likely he would 
have tried to pay off the outstanding amount if he could have done so.  Whilst its 
important credit files accurately reflect account history I do think it’s appropriate here 
to remove the default marker from Mr F’s credit file. With no warning of the default he 
had no opportunity to settle his account which I think had he been able to do so he 
would have.

I think some compensation is appropriate in this case for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Our investigator recommended £100 compensation which I 
think is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Creation Consumer Finance should:-

Remove the default marker from Mr F’s credit file

Pay Mr F £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3792731
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd unfairly requires her to repay lending it 
provided for goods which she says were returned.
What happened
Ms G purchased a mobile device from a retailer using finance provided by Creation. She 
then asked the retailer if she could return the device and arrangements were made for it to 
be collected.
Ms G says that she left the device in her porch along with another package to be collected 
by a different courier. It subsequently came to light that the courier sent by the retailer had 
collected the wrong package. I understand that it was delivered to the retailer, and 
subsequently returned to Ms G sometime later. 
Ms G enquired about the whereabouts of her mobile device, but it seems the retailer denied 
having received it. Ms G raised a complaint with Creation on the basis that it wasn’t fair to 
ask her to repay sums for goods which had been returned.
Creation said that the retailer had told it the device had not been returned. It declined to 
cancel the finance agreement unless the retailer confirmed receipt of the goods. It also 
suggested that Ms G take the matter up with the retailer and the courier.
Ms G didn’t agree with Creation, so she referred the matter to this service. She said that she 
believed the courier had picked up both packages but only one had been returned to her. 
She provided tracking information for a package which the retailer’s courier had collected.
Our investigator accepted that Ms G was allowed to return the device she purchased. But 
significantly, they didn’t think that Ms G had followed the correct returns process based on 
information found on the retailer’s website as well as relevant regulations. They noted that 
under those regulations Ms G was required to return the goods or hand them to someone 
authorised to receive them. They suggested that by leaving the goods in her porch Ms G 
hadn’t met those requirements. 
They also noted that Creation ought to have considered whether or not Ms G had a valid 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Whilst they didn’t think Ms G had a 
valid claim, they said that Creation had provided poor service and ought to pay Ms G £150 
compensation for upset and worry caused. 
Creation agreed with our investigator’s recommendation. Ms G disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman’s decision on the case. She provided a screenshot of a text message from a 
retailer which she believed showed the device had been collected. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I’ll explain why. 
Ms G’s complaint relates to a running account credit facility provided by Creation. It’s a 
regulated agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint 
about.
Ms G might find that I’ve presented the events which led to this complaint in less detail than 
she presented them. I’ve done this simply because I don’t find it necessary to mirror that 
level of detail in explaining what a fair and reasonable outcome is. I can assure Ms G, 
however, that I’ve carefully considered everything I’ve been presented.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I’m required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
The Consumer Contract Regulations 2013 (CCR) are also relevant in this case. They say, in 
summary and with relevance to this case, that in order to cancel a contract the consumer 
would need to return the goods or hand them to the trader or someone authorised by the 
trader to receive them.
Like our investigator, I accept it seems that Ms G’s agreement with the retailer allowed her to 
return the goods. So, if it could be reasonably established that the goods were returned and 
Ms G’s account with Creation hadn’t been credited with the associated value of the 
purchase, then there’s grounds to say there’s been a breach of contract. 
I’ve carefully considered all of the evidence that’s been provided in determining whether the 
goods were likely returned. I acknowledge that Ms G has provided evidence so show that 
something was collected from her porch – for which she’s provided tracking details. And, I 
accept that a package made its way to the retailer. 
However, I also think it’s clear from Creation’s correspondence with the retailer, that the 
package it received didn’t contain the goods Ms G intended to return. And I think Creation 
made reasonable attempts to find out what could've happened. On balance, I think it’s most 
likely that the tracking details we’ve been provided relate to the package which was 
incorrectly collected and delivered to the retailer. 
I can’t say for sure what happened to the package which contained Ms G’s mobile device, 
but based on what I’ve seen, I’m not persuaded that package was returned to the retailer. 
Additionally, I think that by leaving the goods in her porch, Ms G hasn’t met the requirements 
set out under the CCR to entitle her to cancel her contract.  So, I don’t think there’s been a 
breach of contract that Creation ought to be responsible for.
Given all of the above, I’m not persuaded that Creation has been responsible for a breach of 
its contract with Ms G, nor that it’s acted unfairly by asking her to repay the lending it 
provided. So, I don’t require anything of Creation in that respect. That being said, I accept 
that Ms G was caused some upset and worry by Creation’s handling of the matters, but I 
think the £150 compensation it’s agreed to pay is sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to pay Ms G £150 compensation to the extent that it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3796539
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms F complains that a suite supplied with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s also unhappy about the delay in the suite being delivered 
and says she never received a copy of the finance agreement.
What happened
In January 2020 Ms F ordered a suite from a retailer and entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation.
Ms F says there was an issue with the agreement before she signed it and it was amended 
but she’s never received a copy.
The suite was due to be delivered in March 2020. Delivery was delayed initially due to the 
suite being sent to the wrong depot and subsequently due to the national lockdown. Ms F 
finally received the suite in May 2020.
Ms F discovered some issues with the suite when it was delivered and raised a complaint 
with Creation. Ms F says she never received a response to her complaint despite chasing 
several times.
Creation says it wrote to Ms F several times trying to arrange an inspection of the suite but 
never received a response.
Ms F brought her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said that I was satisfied that Ms F had signed the 
agreement electronically but that she should be provided with a hard copy for her records.
In relation to the quality of the goods I said I was satisfied that Creation had tried to contact 
Ms f and that it wasn’t clear why she hadn’t received the letters. I said it was clear that an 
inspection needed to take place to establish whether there was something wrong with the 
goods and said Creation should contact Ms F to arrange this.
In relation to the delay, I said that although there had been some delay caused by the 
retailer sending the suite to the wrong depot, the main cause of the delay was the national 
lockdown which wasn’t something I could fairly hold Creation responsible for. I did say, 
however, that I thought there had been some delay in the handling of Ms F’s complaint for 
which Creation was responsible and for which it should pay compensation.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence of arguments they wished to raise.
Both parties responded and said they accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I see no reasons 
to reach a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Send Ms F a copy of the finance agreement
Contact Ms F to arrange an inspection of the suite
Pay compensation of £100 to Ms F for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3803683
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) didn’t make payments from 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card from Creation with a limit of £10,000. He used a third-party payment 
card (which I will call A) to make payments, with the Creation credit card being debited with 
the transaction.  On 13 September 2021, he attempted a payment for £300. It was not made. 
On 8 September 2021, Creation stopped allowing its customers to use A.
Mr H complained. He said he hadn’t been notified that Creation were to stop using A. He 
then wasted time on the phone to Creation trying to sort things out. He said he got mixed 
messages from Creation to why the payment had failed. 
Creation said they’d made a business decision to stop using A. They said they sent a SMS 
text to all customers telling them about that and the new policy came into effect immediately. 
Creation said there wasn’t any law which said emails should be used. They said were within 
their rights to restrict any transactions without further reason, and there was no breach of 
their terms and conditions. 
Mr H didn’t agree with Creation. He said that the use of SMS texts to advise such a change  
wasn’t a reasonable method of communication. As it was, he was out of the UK when the 
text was sent – and was using a local phone with a local SIM card – so he didn’t get the text. 
He said that a better means of communication was by email or similar. He said there was 
nothing in Creation’s terms of business which said they could stop using a payment card 
such as A.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Creation had made a business 
decision to stop transactions involving A. That wasn’t something our service could change. 
And it was also up to Creation to carry out checks on certain transactions for possible fraud 
– and that’s what they’d done here.
Mr H didn’t agree – he said he had been told different things on the calls he made to 
Creation. He repeated that it wasn’t in Creations terms that they could stop using A; and he 
maintained that SMS texts were not a reasonable form of communication about such a 
matter. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint – and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset that this service resolves individual disputes between customers 
and financial businesses. We aren’t the regulator of Creation – that’s the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). So – we don’t tell businesses to change their policies or practices. So – 
here, it’s for Creation to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its business. 
But we do say if a customer has, or hasn’t, been dealt with fairly and reasonably – based on 
the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
On 13 September 2021, Mr H tried to make a payment of £300 from his Creation credit card. 
It was stopped because Creation stopped using A. Thus is the crux of Mr H’s complaint – 
that he had no knowledge of this change.
In September 2021, Creation made a business decision to stop allowing their card to be 
used as part of the payment card A. This caused transactions attempted by Mr H to be 
declined. I can see that Creation sent text messages to customers on 8 September 2021. It 
said: “with immediate effect we will be unable to process any transactions using your (A) 
card”. He was on holiday at the time and didn’t get Creation’s text. And he also made the 
point to us that it was common practice for people to use a local SIM card (therefore use a 
local phone service) while abroad – as this was cheaper than paying roaming charges with a 
UK phone. And that’s what he had done – so he didn’t get the text. He says that using text 
messaging as a means of communication isn’t viable – and email is better.
I hear what he says here. And I’ve considered his points. The FCA’s guidance is that 
communications should be clear and not misleading. Which - looking at the text message, I 
think it’s reasonable to say it was. And so I have to say that SMS text was a reasonable way 
for Creation to advise its customers about the change. I accept that Mr H was out of the 
country and using a locally enabled phone - and so wouldn’t have got the text – but I can’t 
hold Creation responsible for that.
Creation also told us that Mr H changed his mobile number with them on 18 September 
2021 and showed us the evidence that was done then. So – even if Mr H had opened his 
texts on his UK phone while abroad, he wouldn’t have got Creation’s text dated 8 September 
2021 anyway – as he hadn’t at that stage advised Creation of his new number. But – it’s 
reasonable to expect customers to advise a firm if their phone number has changed, and it 
appears that Mr H didn’t do that until after the change in policy regarding A.
I agree that Creation can take its own business decision about whether to allow the use of A 
with its credit cards – that’s not something we can interfere with, as I have set out. But I 
wanted to confirm whether Creation’s terms and conditions allow them to make that change 
– and Mr H has raised that point.
And Creation’s terms and conditions say at section 5.5: “… You may instruct a Third Party 
Provider (TPP) to access information on your Account or make certain transactions from 
your online Account….We will treat any instruction received from a TPP as if it was from you 
and the terms and conditions of this agreement will continue to apply….. We may refuse to 
allow a TPP to access your Account if we reasonably suspect fraudulent or unauthorised 
activity on their part. We will tell you before we do this unless it is impractical to do so or 
unlawful.” Therefore – Creation were entitled to stop using A if they wished in line with its 
terms, and these also say they would advise customers - which I’m satisfied they did.
We asked Creation for the calls that Mr H referred to in his complaint. Creation told us they 
were no longer available given the passage of time – they have been deleted. So – we can’t 
check the information that Mr H was given on why the payment was declined. Creation 
showed us a note of the call made by Mr H on 13 September 2021 – and the notes says he 
was advised about the decision to stop using A. So that looks to be consistent with what 
happened. Therefore, I’m persuaded that Creation gave Mr H the correct information when 
he called them.
Mr H had argued his complaint with us in detail, and he will be disappointed by my decision, 
but I’m not asking Creation to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3816918
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd are charging interest on a loan.
What happened
Mr D took out a loan with Creation to purchase a chair from a third-party retailer. When Mr D 
began making payments against the loan, he noticed that Creation were charging interest on 
the balance which meant the overall amount payable was more than he paid for the chair. Mr 
D wasn’t unhappy about this, especially as the retailer that sold him the chair had never 
informed him that he’d have to pay interest on any loan he took to purchase the chair. So, he 
raised a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr D’s complaint. But they noted that the credit agreement Mr D had 
signed electronically included that interest would be charged on the loan, and they felt that if 
Mr D had made a private arrangement to the contrary with the retailer then this was a matter 
Mr D would need to take up with the retailer directly. Mr D wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didn’t feel that Creation had acted 
unfairly in how they’d managed the situation, and so they didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr D 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes a copy of the credit agreement, which specifically states that interest will be 
charged on the loan and details how much total interest will be charged. Mr D has stated that 
he’s never seen or signed this credit agreement, but the credit agreement itself confirms that 
it was signed electronically by Mr D on 19 May 2021.
As such, I’m satisfied that it was reasonable for Creation to have acted on the basis of that 
credit agreement and to have charged interest on the loan as they did.
If it was the case that Mr D had been told by the retailer that any loan he entered into to 
purchase the chair would be an interest free loan, then I feel that this is a matter that Mr D 
would need to take up with the retailer directly. 
Additionally, if any other similar occurrence took place – such as the retailer entering Mr D 
into a loan agreement with Creation that he wasn’t aware of – then I also feel that this would 
be a matter Mr D would need to resolve with the retailer directly.
However, for the purposes of this specific complaint against Creation, I find it very difficult to 
conclude that Creation have done anything wrong here. 
This is because I’m satisfied that Creation have acted in accordance with a credit agreement 
which they have record of being signed electronically by Mr D, and which confirms that 
interest will be charged on the loan in question.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but it follows that I won’t be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Creation to take any further action. I trust that Mr D 
will understand, given what I’ve explained, why I’ve made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3829023
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H complains about the administration and management, by Creation Consumer Finance
Ltd (“Creation”), of her finance agreement and account in respect of the same.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to
Mrs H throughout this decision rather than Mrs H and her representative.
What happened
In September 2014 Mrs H purchased an item from retailer that I will call “C”. Mrs H
purchased this item with credit provided by Creation.
Based on system notes provided by Creation, and what the parties have said and submitted,
it’s my understanding that the cost of the item was £1,082,96 and Mrs H agreed to make an
advance payment of £108.30 (10%) followed by:

a single payment of £974.66 on or before 25 March 2015 – total payable £974.66; or

36 monthly payments of £41.84 commencing April 2015 ending March 2018 – total
payable £1,506.24
Mrs H sent Creation a cheque for £919.66, which was credited to her account on
6 March 2015. Mrs H submits that the reason she sent Creation £919.66 (rather than
£974.66) was because:

the sum of £974.66 was inclusive of an installation fee of £82

C was unable to install the item

C advised her that it would ensure an appropriate adjustment (for the lack of install)
would be made to the finance agreement with Creation
On 26 March 2015 Mrs H’s account balance, she having only paid Creation £919.66 before
this date (rather than £974.66), stood at £586.58 (£1,506.24 less £919.66).
Between April 2015 and September 2015 Mrs H paid Creation 6 monthly payments of
£41.84 totalling £251.04, taking her account balance down to £335.54.
In August 2017, and having received no further payments from Mrs H, Creation raised a
charge against Mrs H’s account of £30, taking the balance on it to £365.54.
In May 2019, and having received no further payments from Mrs H, Creation sold the debt
onto a debt collector that I will call “L”.
In March 2021 Mrs H referred a compliant to our service, which was considered by one of
our investigators.
In June and July 2021 our investigator wrote to Mrs H to say that he wasn’t upholding her
complaint against Creation.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator’s decision not to uphold her complaint against
Creation, so it was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in October 2022. In summary I said:
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to make it clear that I’m only considering in this complaint what, if anything,
Creation might have done wrong in its administration and management of Mrs H’s finance
agreement and account. I’m not considering anything C might or might not have done wrong,
something that is being considered by our service as a separate complaint.
Secondly, I would like to point out that where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear,
or contradictory, I’ve to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Creation has provided very little documentation in respect of Mrs H’s finance agreement, but
this isn’t surprising given it was taken out in September 2014 and the outstanding debt (in
respect of it) was sold on in May 2019.
Furthermore, Mrs H has provided nothing that would lead me to conclude that Creation has
done anything wrong in its administration and management of her finance agreement and
account, for example copies of correspondence she had with Creation (rather than copies of
correspondence she had with C) or any evidence that C had been in contact with Creation.
And in respect of the latter, I can’t reasonably hold Creation responsible for any failure on
the part of C to contact it.
So, I’m currently of the view that on the balance of probabilities Creation has done nothing
wrong in this case and it acted entirely in line with its regulatory and legal obligations in all its
dealings with Mrs H including seeking repayment from her and relaying the consequences of
repayment not being made.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings by the date I gave.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party responded to my provisional findings by the date I gave, I can confirm 
that I see no good reason to depart from those findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3837786
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, 
including that Creation failed to provide a duty of care to him regarding his mental health.
What happened
Mr C has a credit account with Creation and has experienced difficult personal and financial 
circumstances which have negatively affected his mental health and caused him to fall into 
arrears on his Creation account. Mr C approached Creation and asked to be allowed to clear 
the arrears on his account without the account balance incurring any monthly interest, but 
Creation weren’t willing to allow this. Mr C wasn’t happy and didn’t feel that Creation were 
taking reasonable account of his mental health. So, he raised a complaint.
Creation looked at Mr C’s complaint. They noted they had recorded that Mr C was struggling 
with his mental health when he’d first told them about it several years ago. But Creation 
didn’t feel that they’d acted unfairly towards Mr C as he maintained, and they didn’t feel that 
Mr C’s mental health issues should fairly mean that he shouldn’t pay interest on the account 
in line with credit agreement. So, they didn’t uphold that aspect of Mr C’s complaint.
However, Creation did accept that Mr C hadn’t received the standard of service he should 
have when he’d contacted them about this, including that he’d had to wait an unreasonable 
amount of time before being able to speak with a manager. Creation apologised to Mr C for 
those service issues and offered to pay £30 to Mr C as compensation for any trouble and 
upset he may have incurred. Mr C wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response to his complaint, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the response Creation had issued 
to Mr C’s complaint – including that Creation didn’t agree to suspend the interest on the 
account and the offer of £30 compensation for the service issues – already represented a 
fair outcome to what had happened, so they didn’t uphold the complaint. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it’s clear that Mr C feels that Creation haven’t provided a sufficient duty of 
care regarding his mental health and have acted in a non-regulatory manner by doing so. 
However, it must be acknowledged that this service isn’t a regulatory body or a Court of Law 
and doesn’t operate as such. This means that it isn’t within my remit to declare whether 
Creation have acted on a non-regulatory or unlawful manner or not. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal dispute resolution service, with a remit based on fairness 
of outcome. This means that this service doesn’t champion the cause of either the consumer 
or the business, but instead seeks to make an impartial assessment of whether an unfair 
outcome is felt to have occurred, and to instruct a business to take corrective action and/or 
pay compensation – if it’s deemed appropriate to do so.
In this instance, while I can appreciate Mr C’s concerns, I haven’t seen anything which I feel, 
in my professional capacity as a financial ombudsman, does demonstrate that Creation have 
treated Mr C unfairly, and this includes in reference to Mr C’s mental health.
One reason I say this is because it doesn’t necessarily follow that because a credit account 
holder is experiencing circumstances which negatively affect their mental health, that the 
credit provider should freeze the accrual of interest on the account. And this is especially the 
case when the account holder is requesting to clear the arrears on their account within a 
reasonable amount of time, as Mr C was in this instance.
Importantly, it’s one of the features of a credit account that the account will incur interest on 
any outstanding account balance, and Mr C agreed to this when he applied for and accepted 
the credit account. So, I don’t feel that the accrual on interest on the account should fairly be 
frozen in this instance, even taking into consideration the difficult personal and financial 
circumstances that Mr C has described. 
Indeed, the freezing of interest on a credit account often only takes place either when a 
payment plan is agreed which is then reported to the credit reference agencies or when the 
account is defaulted for non-payment – with the act of default having the effect of freezing 
the account balance and stopping all further charges and interest accrual on the account so 
that the account holder doesn’t continue to fall further into debt.
But the reporting of a payment plan to the credit reference agencies or the defaulting of a 
credit account isn’t without consequence and can adversely affect a person’s credit file for 
up to six years. And in this instance, Mr C was offering to make monthly payments to clear 
the arrears that had accrued on his account within 12-months, which was an acceptable 
timeframe for Creation such that the defaulting of the account wasn’t something they were 
imminently considering at that time. 
Creation did offer to refer Mr C to their Financial Difficulties Team, but any arrangement Mr 
C would have arrived at with hat team would, in all likelihood, have resulted in adverse 
information being reported to his credit file in relation to that agreement. And, given that Mr 
C’s didn’t want to be referred to that team, and that his account also wasn’t going to be 
defaulted, it seems fair to me that Creation would still apply interest to the account on a 
monthly basis, in line with the terms of that account.
Ultimately, while I sympathise with the difficult circumstances Mr C has experienced which 
have affected his mental health, I don’t feel this means that Creation were fairly or 
reasonably obliged to freeze the interest on his account as he would have liked. 
Creation have also explained that they took note of Mr C’s mental health issues when he first 
advised them of those issues in 2019, and that they’ve given Mr C the option of interacting 
with their Specialist Support Team and have requested further information from Mr C about 
the difficulties he’s facing, such as a note from Mr C’s doctor. This seems reasonable to me, 
and so from within the remit of this service as described previously in this letter, I don’t feel 
that Creation haven’t provided a sufficient duty of care to Mr C as he maintains. 
Creation have acknowledged that Mr C didn’t receive a fair standard of service from them 
when he spoke to them about his account, including that Mr C wasn’t transferred to a 
manager within a reasonable amount of time. Creation have apologised to Mr C for this and 
offered to pay £30 compensation to him for any trouble or upset he may have incurred in 
relation to this specific point.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but the £30 that Creation have offered Mr C 
here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that it’s commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Creation to pay, had they not already offered to do so. In arriving at this position 
I’ve considered that this compensation amount is only for the service issues Mr C has 
experienced and the impact that these specific issues may have had on him. And having 
done so, I’m satisfied that £30 is a fair amount in this instance.
All of which means I’m satisfied that the response Creation issued to Mr C in regard to his 
complaint already represents a fair and reasonable resolution to what’s taken place here, 
and it follows from this that I won’t be upholding this complaint or instructing Creation to take 
any further action.
I realise this won’t be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope he’ll understand, given all 
that I’ve explained, why I’ve made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3844036
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss H complains that a sofa she bought from a retailer, S, was not of satisfactory quality. 
Because she paid for the sofa with credit provided by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd under 
arrangements with S, she wants Creation to provide a refund.
What happened
In November 2019 Miss H bought a sofa. She paid a total of £1,900, including £200 for a 
warranty. The purchase was funded primarily with an interest-free loan of £1,750 from 
Creation, which Miss H was to repay at just under £50 a month over three years.
Within a few weeks Miss H says that she heard a crack from the sofa. She contacted S to 
arrange an inspection. The inspector said that some retainer screws had not been fitted 
when the sofa was delivered. Once they were fitted, Miss H indicated that she was happy 
the problem had been resolved. 
However, in April 2020 Miss H contacted S again. She said something similar had happened 
a second time. The same technician attended in June 2020. He concluded that the sofa’s 
stretcher rails had snapped in two places. He indicated that a repair was possible and would 
be fairly straightforward. Miss H did not however agree to a repair or to let the technician 
carry out a full inspection.   
Miss H said that she wanted a replacement, but S did not agree. The sofa was inspected 
again in October 2020. This time, the technician was given full access and was able to take 
photographs of the damaged parts. Again, S said a repair was possible and offered to carry 
it out, but Miss H declined.
Miss H referred the matter to Creation, but it took broadly the same line as S. That is, it said 
Miss H should take up S’s offer to repair the sofa. It was not prepared to provide a refund.  
Miss H therefore contacted this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not think that a repair would provide a fair outcome. Rather. She agreed 
with Miss H that she should have a full refund of any sums paid under the loan agreement 
and that any balance should be written off. 
Creation did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the case. It said the effect of 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 was that Miss H was not entitled to a full refund and that S’s 
offer of a repair was reasonable. 
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:

I am required by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 to reach my decision by 
reference to what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In 
deciding that, I must have regard to any relevant law.   

The effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in this case is that, if Miss 
H has a claim for breach of contract against S, she has a like claim against Creation. 

Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Miss H’s contract with S is to be read as 
including a term that the sofa would be of satisfactory quality.

There is no dispute that the sofa was not of satisfactory quality, and Creation accepts 
that it is liable in the same way as S. 

The Consumer Rights Act provides for a range of remedies, including repair, rescission 
and replacement. 

Whilst the technician indicated that a repair was possible, I can understand why Miss H 
was reluctant to agree to one.

Miss H has had some use of the sofa. Her initial concerns had been resolved, but it 
appears that the sofa was effectively unusable from about April 2020. 
I indicated that I thought a fair resolution would be for Miss H to have a refund of everything 
she had paid from April 2020, reflecting the fact that she had had no real benefit since then. 
Miss H accepted my provisional decision and the proposed remedy. Creation has not 
responded to it. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Miss H has accepted my provisional decision and Creation has not responded to it, I 
see no reason to change my view about this complaint should be resolved. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Miss H’s complaint in full, Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd should end the loan agreement and refund any payments which Miss 
H has made to it from April 2020. It should also add interest to the refunds at 8% a year 
simple from the date of each payment to the date of the refund. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3855991
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd failed to deal with her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund of her purchase of a defective glass 
table.
What happened
In 2019 Mrs C bought a glass table and six chairs and paid for them with an interest-free 
loan from Creation. They were delivered in September 2019. In June 2022 the glass table 
spontaneously shattered, and so Mrs C asked Creation for a refund, as the company she 
had bought it from was no longer trading. She obtained a report from an independent expert, 
who examined the table and concluded that the damage was the result of a manufacturing 
defect. The damage cannot be repaired. These conclusions are not in dispute.
Creation failed to issue a final response letter in time, citing “internal delays,” and told Mrs C 
that she had the right to refer the matter to our service, which she did in September 2022. 
She asked for a refund of the cost of the table, and some further compensation for some 
customer service failings. After that, in October, Creation upheld her claim and issued a final 
response. It offered to refund her the cost of the table, minus a deduction of about £291 for 
the fact that she had had nearly three years’ use of the table before it broke.
Since neither party told our investigator about that offer at the time, the investigator issued 
his opinion of the case in November. He upheld the complaint and recommended that 
Creation refund all of Mrs C’s loan repayments in respect of the table and the chairs too, less 
£500 to reflect her use of them. He also recommended that Creation pay interest on the 
refunds, end the loan agreement, collect the table or pay a further £22 (being the cost of the 
local authority’s waste collection service), and ensure that no negative information is 
reported on Mrs C’s credit file.
Creation did not accept that recommendation. It insisted that its offer was fair. The 
investigator did not agree, saying that the table and chairs were part of a matching set and 
so the whole suite should be replaced. The case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am currently of the view that the chairs were never a part of this complaint 
and that the way Creation calculated its offer is fair, although I propose to add £50 to the 
compensation for some customer service issues. I will explain why.
Firstly, Mrs C did not mention the chairs in her section 75 claim or in this complaint, or ask 
for that part of her purchase to be refunded. The entire focus of her case has been the table, 
so it is not surprising that Creation confined its offer to the table alone. I have thought about 
whether this might have just been an oversight by Mrs C. But although the table and the 
chairs were bought at the same time, the way they are described on the receipt suggests 
that they were not actually manufactured as a set of matching furniture, as they have 
different names. And the table is just a plain white metal frame for legs, with a plain glass 
top, so I don’t think it would be difficult to find another table of similar appearance which 
would go just as well with the chairs as the original table. So I am not persuaded that it is 
necessary to refund the price of the chairs as well as the table.
As for the refund of the table, nobody disputes that it is fair for Creation to deduct something 
from the refund to reflect the fact that Mrs C was able to use the table for 34 months before it 
broke. The only issue here is how much that should be. Creation calculated that in the 
following way (and showed its working in its offer letter).
First, Creation calculated that the time between the table being delivered (in September 
2019) and when it broke (in June 2022) was 34 months. Next, it assumed a life expectancy 
for the table of ten years, which appears to be arbitrary but does not seem to me to be 
unreasonable. It then calculated 34 months as a percentage of 120 months, which it wrongly 
stated to be 27.5% but which is actually 28.333%. However, it appears to have still used the 
correct percentage when calculating that 34/120 of the price of the table, £1,030.06, comes to 
£291.85. The latter figure is how much Creation proposed to keep for itself, and the 
difference between those two figures, £738.21, is the proposed refund, by way of a cost 
reduction.
That seems to me to be a fair way of calculating the amount to refund. I don’t think it is 
necessary to award interest on that sum.
Mrs C’s complaint about customer service does not appear to have been addressed yet. She 
says that Creation did not respond to her emails in a timely manner, and it was not possible 
to phone them. I also note that the final response letter was sent late, which meant that she 
brought this complaint to our service, which might not have been necessary if Creation had 
made its offer in September. That caused her some inconvenience. Taking all of these 
matters together, I think that £50 is fair compensation. That should be paid directly to Mrs C, 
rather than being treated as a cost reduction on the loan agreement.
Since Mrs C still has the chairs, I don’t think it is necessary to remove the loan agreement 
from her credit file. After the cost reduction, I think there will be no more left to pay towards 
the loan agreement, and so this should be recorded as settled in full.
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right in the way I have set out above; that is:

Reduce the cost of Mrs C’s loan by £738.21,

Report the loan to the relevant credit reference agencies as settled in full, and

Pay another £50 directly to Mrs C for her inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional findings
Creation accepted my provisional decision. Mrs C did not, and made the following points:

The table and chairs were bought and sold together as a matching set.

The broken glass is a hazard, and recently caused an injury to Mrs C’s mother when 
she visited.

The table is taking up a lot of room in the house, while it can no longer be used.

I had not considered how the table is to be disposed of.

I had let Creation get away with mistreating her.
I put these points to Creation and asked for its comments, but it did not respond by the 
deadline.
My findings
I had meant to deal with the disposal of the table in the same way as the investigator had 
recommended, which was for Creation to either collect the table or pay a further £22 for it to 
be collected by Mrs C’s local authority. I apologise for forgetting to include that in my 
provisional decision. I have already told Creation that this was an oversight and that it would 
be in my final decision.
Although Mrs C feels strongly about this case, I have to emphasize that my role is to award 
compensation, not to punish, so I can’t fine a business to teach it a lesson, which I presume 
is what she meant with her last point.1
I am not persuaded to award further compensation for the chairs, for the same reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision.
I have seen photos of the broken glass. It has crazed but is still holding together. I think the 
risk of injury could have been mitigated by putting tape over any sharp edges, but I don’t 
think that should get Creation off the hook entirely, since the risk of injury from broken glass 
is still foreseeable. Although Mrs C’s mother was not a party to the contract (and is not 
eligible to bring a complaint to our service), I think her injury would have caused Mrs C some 
distress and so I will award some compensation for that. I think £200 is fair.
(Just in case Creation thinks that Mrs C should have got rid of the table already – although it 
has never said that – I can understand why she didn’t want to do that while her complaint 
was still ongoing, and so I do not think it would be right to reduce her compensation because 
of that.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Reduce the cost of Mrs C’s loan by £738.21,

Report the loan to the relevant credit reference agencies as settled in full,

Pay another £250 directly to Mrs C for her distress and inconvenience, and

Arrange to collect and dispose of the table at no cost to Mrs C, or alternatively pay 
Mrs C a further £22.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 A court cannot award exemplary (punitive) damages for breach of contract; see Chitty on Contracts 
(34th edition) paragraph 29-067.

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3857434
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss V is unhappy with the interest that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has 
applied to her finance account. 
What happened
Miss V took out a financing agreement with Creation on 24 July 2021. This was used to 
purchase a laptop from a company I shall call G, at a cost of £718. The agreement had a 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period of 12 months included and therefore interest wouldn’t 
become applicable until after 24 July 2022. The monthly payments were given as £46.71 
with 24 payments being required to repay the finance. 
Miss V made two £50 manual payments towards the agreement inside the BNPL period and 
believed the balance was being reduced further by the monthly £46.71 direct debit 
repayments. In July 2022, Miss V realised the direct debits hadn’t been taken and the 
outstanding balance was therefore considerably higher than she expected. 
Miss V says she tried to contact Creation via its online message portal and by calling but 
couldn’t reach it or get a reply. Miss V did manage to speak to someone in Creation’s call 
centre and was told her balance would not increase. This was incorrect and interest was 
applied. Miss V called Creation again following this, but that call was unproductive with the 
advisor being unhelpful. 
Miss V therefore logged a formal complaint with Creation. Creation responded and said that 
Miss V’s credit agreement clearly explained when the BNPL period was due to end and that 
interest would apply if the full balance wasn’t repaid by then. Creation paid Miss V £80 for 
the incorrect information and the poor service she received, but said the interest remained 
payable. 
Unhappy with this Miss V brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at the complaint and concluded that Miss V was made sufficiently aware of when the 
BNPL deadline was and that the direct debit payments weren’t being made. Therefore, 
Creation hasn’t acted unfairly in applying the interest it did. 
Miss V didn’t agree and said she gave her direct debit details to G and naturally assumed 
the payments would start the following month. She said it wasn’t made clear the DD would 
start a year later and not from the outset. 
As Miss V didn’t agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not 
because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I’ve reviewed Miss V’s finance agreement, and this clearly explains that the BNPL period 
ends on 24 July 2022. The agreement goes on to say: 
“Interest will not be payable on any payment made before this date, even if the payments do 
not clear the amount in full. If you pay £718 by this date you won’t be charged any interest. If 
you do not make any payment to clear or reduce the credit amount due, you will have to 
make monthly repayments of £46.71 starting on 24 August 2022. Any balance left to pay 
after this date will incur interest from the date of your purchase at the rate specified in your 
credit agreement.”
Creation has also provided a copy of further correspondence it sent on 24 July 2021, 
regarding the direct debit. This correspondence confirmed the setup of the direct debit, the 
amount and that the first payment date would be 24 August 2022. 
Miss V electronically signed the agreement and by doing so agreed to be bound by its terms 
and conditions. Miss V has said that she didn’t see the agreement, or any direct debit form 
until after she had already signed. If this was the case, it would be for Miss V to be 
comfortable with the terms of the agreement before signing it. 
However, even if the documents were only available after Miss V had signed the finance 
agreement, Miss V would have been able to read it then. I’m satisfied the agreement did 
make it clear no direct debit would be taken until August 2022, after the BNPL period had 
ended. The agreement has a 14-day cancellation period that Miss V could also have 
exercised had she been unhappy with any of the terms. 
Creation has provided evidence that Miss V registered for its Online Account Manager 
service. With this service she was able to see her statements and other key documents 
online. Miss V has explained that she didn’t know she could view these documents. 
Creations records show that Miss V did access her September 2021 and March 2022 
statements online. The statements were generated after her manual £50 payments. Given 
this, I’m satisfied Miss V knew how to use the online account manager service. 
Both the September 2021 and March 2022 statements showed that no direct debit was in 
place and made it clear that there was “no payment due at this time.” The balance showing 
on both statements would have also been significantly higher than it would have been had 
direct debits been made every month, like Miss V says she believed was happening. I 
would’ve expected Miss V to raise her concerns at this time regarding the direct debit 
payment not being made as she expected. 
I fully appreciate that Miss V’s intention was to repay Creation by direct debit. But I’m 
satisfied Creation made it clear in the terms of the agreement that no direct debit payments 
would occur until after the BNPL period had ended. It provided statements that Miss V 
accessed that also showed no direct debit was in place. 
Miss V says she was able to speak to someone at Creation when she became aware the 
direct debits hadn’t been taken. It isn’t disputed that Miss V was given incorrect information 
regarding her balance not increasing on this call. In her complaint form to this service Miss V 
says the call took place the day before her BNPL was due to expire (24 July 2022). In her 
complaint email to Creation, the date Miss V gave for this call is 25 July 2022. In its final 
response, Creation has explained that this call took place on 27 July 2022. 
In any event, regardless of when the call took place, I don’t believe Miss V would have acted 
differently had the correct information been provided. Therefore, the wrong information 
hasn’t caused any detriment to her. Creation has paid Miss V £80 for the incorrect 
information and poor service it provided. Miss V confirmed her acceptance of this and 
therefore I haven’t commented further. 
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss V, but I’m satisfied in 
this case that Creation hasn’t acted unfairly in applying the interest it did.
My final decision
I don’t uphold Miss V’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3866215
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t supported a
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974). The complaint
is about the quality of sofas she bought using finance provided by Creation.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint but the redress needs clarifying so I’m
issuing a provisional decision.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the goods should
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and explains that when we consider
satisfactory quality we should consider whether the goods have proven durable. If the goods
weren’t of satisfactory quality when supplied I would think there had been a breach of
contract.
Miss C says the sofa wasn’t durable and the technician who inspected the goods in
September 2020 agreed. He said there was flaking of the leather on both sofas and they’d
both need to be recovered because the top coating had not been secured in the tannery
process. It was his expert view that the supplier were responsible for rectifying the issue.
The relevant legislation allows the supplier the opportunity to repair goods in those
circumstances but here that’s not been possible as covers are no longer available.
Where a repair can’t be completed in a reasonable period of time we’d expect a business to
allow the consumer to reject and return the goods and to refund the money paid. The
relevant legislation allows the business to retain some of that refund in respect of fair use.
The retailer has suggested that in calculating what is fair use we should consider the period
of the warranty, but I don’t think that’s a fair way to identify fair usage here.
I think a reasonable person would expect a sofa to last longer than four years but perhaps
not too much longer. As a resolution the retailer offered 20% off a new sofa. I think it’s for
Miss C to decide where she sources a new sofa from, and I don’t therefore think the
retailer’s offer was a fair one. Miss C had the sofa for about four years when she reported
issues with it. I think that she therefore had considerable use of it before reporting problems
and that it’s only fair she should pay for that use. In respect of the amount that should be
deducted by Creation for fair wear and tear I think 80% is therefore reasonable.
Creation will also need to refund the £75 that Miss C paid for the inspection report and they’ll
need to add interest to any refunds as Miss C has been deprived of the money.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I’m expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Creation
Consumer Finance Limited to:

Refund the finance instalments Miss C has paid for the sofas, retaining 80% in
respect of the fair usage she’s had from them. Add 8% simple interest to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund the £75 Miss C paid for the inspection report and add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation didn’t provide any additional evidence or comments and Miss C accepted my 
provisional decision.
I’ve not therefore been provided with any additional comments or evidence that has led me 
to change my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited to:

Refund the finance instalments Miss C has paid for the sofas, retaining 80% in
respect of the fair usage she’s had from them. Add 8% simple interest to any refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund the £75 Miss C paid for the inspection report and add 8% simple interest per
year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3867483
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) were unreasonable to 
reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 
75”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as is the 
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer 
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement 
has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I’m not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
don’t have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
“Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill”.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I don’t think the installation has been
performed with reasonable care and skill.
I say that because the report provided by an alternative plumbing company who Mr R 
contacted and who attended the property on 9 July 2021, shortly after the boiler had been 
fitted, says:
“…investigation led me to see small drops running down on side of shower. Customer 
explained that boiler fitters opened the nuts on shower to check water was there. Water on 
cold side had not been tightened back up and was spraying water back inside the wall. Have 
tightened up and got water back on and tested. Issue is now solved”.
Creation now dispute that the boiler installers loosened the shower fitting and the supplier 
has suggested the leak was caused by an increase in pressure due to the gravity fed system 
being replaced by a pressurised one. I’m not persuaded by that argument as Mr R has 
provided photographs that show his shower was pressurised, albeit through a separate 
pump, and as the leak appears to have come apparent very shortly after the boiler was fitted 
I think it’s very likely the shower connection was loosened by the installers and not 
retightened before they left.
I’m supported in that argument by the fact that Mr R’s testimony has never changed. He 
suggested to Creation when he first raised his complaint that the shower had been 
disconnected as there was no water flow from it and the installers wanted to check the 
supply. He went on to explain that he’d been led to believe the supply had been interrupted 
because of changes that had been made to the layout of pipework in his loft. The supplier 
waited sometime before raising any concern that the installers hadn’t caused the damage 
and I think they would have been likely to have raised the issue from the onset had that been 
a realistic concern. 
So, on balance, I think it’s likely the leak that led to part of Mr R’s ceiling collapsing, damage 
to an artwork, and damage to his carpet, was due to the installation of the boiler not being 
completed with reasonable care and skill. I therefore think there has been a breach of 
contract here and that Creation have been unreasonable to reject Mr R’s section 75 claim.
I note that the reason Creation didn’t consider the claim any further was because it was 
being considered by the supplier’s insurer. I don’t think that was reasonable. Mr R had a like 
right to claim against Creation as he did against the merchant and it was unreasonable to 
suspend that claim pending the insurance investigation.
Putting things right
I think it’s likely that the damage Mr R reported to his carpet, ceiling, and to a piece of 
artwork were incurred as a consequence of the breach of contract. 
Mr R has provided three quotes to replace the carpet, refurbish his artwork, and repair the 
ceiling. Our investigator considered those quotes and suggested Creation should pay Mr R 
£2,000 in respect of the ceiling repairs, £900 for carpet repairs, and a sum of £300 in relation 
to the damage to the artwork Mr R has evidenced. The ceiling quote seems a reasonable 
amount given the spread of the quotes received and the likelihood that prices will have risen 
in the interim. The carpet quotes average out at not far off £900 and that therefore seems 
fair as well. Whilst the quotes to repair the painting vary quite markedly, I think a fair 
resolution would be to take the estimated purchase price that Mr R has provided into 
account and ask creation to pay Mr R £300.
Our investigator suggested Creation should pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience he’s experienced. I note that Mr R has asked for this to be 
reconsidered. When looking at a section 75 claim I’m asked to consider whether the 
business (Creation) have been fair and reasonable when considering the claim. I’m not 
asked to consider the distress and inconvenience caused by the supplier or their chosen 
installers, but I can consider any distress and inconvenience caused by Creation. Creation 
could have resolved this matter sooner for Mr R and I think some of the delay can be 
attributed to them asking, I think unfairly, to wait for the insurers to pay out. Taking all of the 
circumstances into account I’m persuaded that there has been some distress and 
inconvenience caused by Creation, but I think £200 is sufficient compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Pay Mr R £2,000 in respect of the ceiling repairs.

Pay Mr R £900 in relation to the repairs to his carpet.

Pay Mr R £300 in respect of the damage to artwork.

Pay Mr R £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience their actions 
have caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3880876
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined her claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund in relation to a damaged leather sofa.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs B bought a leather sofa, financed by a four year interest-free loan from 
Creation. Her purchase included a five year “leather care cover” insurance policy.
In May 2022 Mrs B complained to the retailer and, simultaneously, to our service, saying that 
the leather was peeling and worn. In June she complained to Creation, and asked for a 
refund. Creation and the retailer each told her that as the problem was wear and tear, it 
wasn’t covered by the insurance policy, and the two-year warranty on the leather had 
expired. 
One of our investigators looked into this case, but she decided that there was no evidence to 
show the cause of the fault or that there had been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation by the retailer. She concluded that Creation had not been wrong to 
decline her claim.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman’s decision. She said that the sofa should have lasted longer, 
and also said that the insurance policy had not been honoured.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 makes Creation jointly and equally liable with the retailer for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the retailer arising out of Mrs B’s contract to buy the sofa. It 
is an implied statutory term of the contract that the sofa would be of satisfactory quality. That 
includes that it must be durable and free of minor defects at the time it was sold. But 
Creation is not liable for anything else.
If the damage had occurred during the two year warranty period, then that would have been 
convincing evidence that the sofa was not durable. But as the damage occurred outside of 
the period for which the sofa was guaranteed, I find it harder to conclude that no wear and 
tear ought to have occurred after three years. I also note that Mrs A’s home is occupied by a 
family of five, so it is likely that this sofa was getting plenty of use. So while I can understand 
why she has complained, on the balance of probabilities I do not feel able to conclude that 
the cause of the damage is that the sofa was of poor quality when it was sold.
Mrs B has argued that the damage implies that the leather might not be real leather but fake. 
So I have looked online at a number of photos of damaged leather. But having done that, 
I do not think it would be safe to infer that the damage I have seen in Mrs B’s photos must 
mean that it is not real leather. The damage to her sofa is not dissimilar to what I have seen 
in pictures of other leather goods.
Although the warranty had expired, the leather care cover was still in force. The insurer 
actually appears to be a third party, but I have still considered the sale of this policy, as if it 
was worthless then that could be evidence of a misrepresentation by the retailer. However, 
the policy excludes “damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product 
becoming gradually … out of condition over time” (section 4, paragraph 6). It is meant for 
accidental or sudden damage only. Having seen the photos, I don’t think I can say that the 
damage is more than just wear and tear. So the fact that the policy did not assist Mrs B on 
this occasion does not mean that it was mis-sold.
For all of these reasons, I am satisfied that Creation did not wrongly decline Mrs B’s claim 
under section 75.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3882667
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs H complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (CCF) wasn’t of satisfactory quality and the mileage was 
misrepresented.
What happened
Mrs H entered into a hire purchase agreement with CCF in February 2022 to acquire a used 
car. She made an advance payment of £4,500 and was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £361 followed by a final payment of £6,952 if she wished to keep the 
car. The total amount repayable under the agreement was around £28,779. At the time of 
acquisition, the car was around five years old and had a recorded mileage of over 49,000.
Mrs H says that in May 2022 the car broke down because the gearbox failed, and she was 
told the car was unroadworthy and needed several repairs. She then carried out a check and 
discovered an issue with the mileage. She raised a complaint that the car wasn’t fit for 
purpose. CCF didn’t respond to Mrs H’s complaint within the required timeframe and so 
Mrs H referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She looked at the car’s MOT history and this 
suggested the car’s mileage had been misrepresented. She also thought that the number of 
issues Mrs H had experienced within the first few months showed the car not to be of 
satisfactory quality. Given this she recommended that Mrs H be allowed to reject the car and 
have her deposit refunded along with any repayments made from May 2022 onwards.
CCF didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. It provided evidence from the car’s service and 
vehicle history to show the mileage was correct and that the information on the MOT history 
website was incorrect. It said thar Mrs H had sent an email to the dealership on 7 May 2022 
about the gearbox failure and the cost of repair being £2,700. It said the warranty company 
was going to cover £2,000 and the dealership agreed to pay £700 meaning there was no 
cost to Mrs H. It thought this a fair resolution.
Our investigator considered the information provided about the mileage and thought this 
suggested the mileage was accurate. But she said that her view remained that the car 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality given the issues that had occurred in the first few months of 
Mrs H’s use.
CCF didn’t agree. It said the dealership didn’t service the vehicle at the point of supply as 
this wasn’t needed but did carry out its checks. It said the dealership had said it would 
instruct an inspection of the timing belt and carry out repairs if necessary, but it didn’t agree 
to unwind the agreement. CCF said the issue about the mileage had been resolved and it 
offered to have an independent inspection carried out because it didn’t think the diagnostics 
showed the issues were present at the point of supply.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:

There was an initial concern that the mileage was incorrect on the car. However, on 
balance, having looked through the information provided (service history) and noting 
the comments of testimony to support the mileage being accurate, I found it 
reasonable to accept that the mileage recorded at the point of supply was not 
misrepresented.

Given the car’s age and mileage it was reasonable to expect it to have suffered some 
wear and tear. That said - and taking usual wear and tear into account - in order to 
be of satisfactory quality, the car needed to be sufficiently durable. Mrs H acquired 
the car on 18 February 2022 and in May 2022 the gearbox failed. I noted there was a 
gearbox service in 2019 when the car had been driven around 35,300 miles and the 
comments that a service wasn’t needed before the car was supplied. However, in this 
case I didn’t think the car could be considered sufficiently durable when a major 
component – the gearbox – failed in such a short space of time.

Following the gearbox failure, Mrs H had the car inspected and as well as the 
gearbox failure, it was identified that the undercover was missing and that various 
consumable items needed replacing. I noted CCF’s comments about this report not 
being the result of an independent inspection and I agreed it doesn’t set out whether 
the points recorded were due to faults present at the point of supply. However, I 
thought the information was sufficient to consider whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality.

Considering the issues raised (aside from the gearbox), I found it more likely than not 
that the undercover was missing at the point of supply, and I wouldn’t have expected 
Mrs H to have checked for this at that time and so accepted she wouldn’t have been 
aware it was missing when she collected the car. The other items listed were 
consumables. As the car wasn’t new at acquisition wear and tear would be expected. 
So, while I noted that the tyres and front and rear brake discs and pads needed 
replacing, I didn’t find I could say these components weren’t of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. I said this because Mrs H had been able to drive the car for over 
two months and around 3,400 miles before the gearbox failure and the subsequent 
inspection. Also, the car passed an MOT in February 2022 before supply which 
would have noted had these items not been of satisfactory quality at that time. Other 
items such as the service and brake fluid change are part of general car maintenance 
and the wipers smearing was also general wear and tear.

This left the issue with the timing belt and water pump. The inspection report said 
these needed replacing. While I didn’t have further details, I noted the dealer had 
offered to have the timing belt inspected and carry out repairs if necessary.

When a car isn’t of satisfactory quality there are different remedies that can be 
applied. In this case Mrs H didn’t reject the car within the first 30 days but did raise 
issues within the first six months. Given the timing and nature of the issues and 
noting that the dealer offered repairs to the gearbox in a timely way, I thought it 
reasonable that CCF was given a chance to carry out repairs. While I understood 
Mrs H hadn’t been able to use her car since May 2022 and had acquired another car 
I needed to be fair to all parties and as a repair of the gearbox was offered and then 
subsequently an inspection and repair if needed of the timing belt was offered, I 
found this should be allowed. In the event the repairs weren’t successful then Mrs H 
would have a final right to reject the car.

While I accepted that offers of repair had made, Mrs H hadn’t been able to drive the 
car since May 2022 and there were delays in CCF responding to her complaint. 
Therefore, I thought it reasonable that she wasn’t held liable for any repayments from 
May 2022 until the repairs have been completed and that her credit file was amended 
so that any adverse information recorded during that period was removed.
CCF agreed with my provisional decision. It then noted that a quote of £2,700 had previously 
been provided for the gearbox repair and confirmed that Mrs H could have this repaired at 
her local garage with the warranty company covering £2,000 and CCF covering the 
remainder. Once this repair had been completed it said it would have the timing belt 
inspected and if a new belt was needed this would be provided at no cost to Mrs H.  
Mrs H provided further evidence. She said that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when 
supplied and had underlying faults which caused the engine to fail within 11 weeks. She said 
that since her complaint was logged, CCF hadn’t provided any proof that the mileage 
discrepancy was a mistake despite her requesting this. She said there were multiple mileage 
errors in the recorded history of the car which would cause her issues if she tried to sell the 
car. She said the fairest outcome was for her to be able to return the car and that having 
sought legal advice she was within her rights to do this. Mrs H said due to the significant 
amount of time it had taken for this issue to be addressed, she had needed to acquire a 
replacement car. 
Mrs H then provided a further response saying that she would agree to the repairs if 
undertaken by a manufacturer approved garage. But was still concerned by the issue with 
the mileage. She reiterated the issue and her concerns about additional wear and tear and 
the value of the car. She said her intention when she acquired the car was to sell it or trade it 
in at some point in the future and she thought the issue with the mileage could put her at risk 
of either not being able to do this or doing so at a large loss. She said she couldn’t accept 
keeping the car until adequate proof of the error had been provided. She asked that once the 
car was repaired, she would sell it to clear the finance at a settlement figure that reflected 
the removal of all interest and charges applied since the car’s failure in May. She said if she 
faced any issues selling the car due to the mileage discrepancy then CCF should take back 
the car and her agreement be cancelled with no impact on her credit file.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with CCF. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, CCF can be held liable if the car 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. When assessing whether a car is of 
satisfactory it is reasonable to consider factors such as the car’s age and mileage. In this 
case the car was around five years old and had been driven just over 49,000 miles at the 
point of supply.
Mrs H has said that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied. As I said in my 
provisional decision, given the timing of the gearbox failure I don’t think the car was 
sufficiently durable and therefore not of satisfactory quality. This is further supported by the 
issue with the timing belt. So, while I note other issues such as the tyres and brake pads are 
reasonable wear and tear, I think the failure of the gearbox means that car wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality and so CCF is required to remedy this, along any required repairs to the 
timing belt and water pump and the replacement of the undercover.
I understand Mrs H’s concerns about the mileage. However, having considered the evidence 
provided (manufacturer’s service history and the service history certificate) I find it 
reasonable to say that the high mileage recorded in the MOT history for June 2020 was 
more likely than not a mistake. The other mileage records support the June 2020 recording 
as being incorrect and I also note that for the June 2020 figure to be correct (77,650 miles) 
the car would have needed to have been driven over 40,000 miles in the previous seven 
months at a time when there were Covid restrictions in place, which appears unlikely. 
Therefore, on balance, I do not find I can say the mileage at the point of supply was 
misrepresented to Mrs H. I appreciate her concerns about the information and the issues this 
could cause at sale but the service evidence and history is available to her and as I do not 
find, on balance, that the mileage was misrepresented, I do not uphold this part of Mrs H’s 
complaint.
Therefore, I have considered what a fair remedy is for the issues with quality of the car. I 
understand why Mrs H acquired a replacement car and that this means she will struggle 
making payments going forward on both this car and the replacement vehicle. However, I 
have to consider what a fair outcome is to this complaint about this car. I understand Mrs H 
wishes to reject the car but in this case, as I set out in my provisional decision, I think given 
the timing and nature of the issues, and noting that the dealer offered repairs to the gearbox 
in a timely way, I think it is reasonable that CCF is given a chance to carry out repairs. 
CCF has agreed to the gearbox repair being undertaken at Mrs H’s local garage and the 
cost (based on the £2,700 quote) being covered. To be clear, in the event the cost of the 
gearbox repair (as carried out by the agreed garage) costs more than the initial quote, I find 
that this is the responsibly of CCF to cover. In regard to the inspection of the timing belt and 
any subsequent repair, I note Mrs H’s comments about her loss of faith in the dealer but I do 
not find that the dealer should be prevented from carrying out this work, although this can be 
disused between CCF and Mrs H. I note the confirmation of repairs made by CCF but this 
didn’t note the replacement of the missing undercover which should also happen at no cost 
to Mrs H. 
As also noted in my provisional decision, to reflect the time Mrs H hasn’t been able to use 
the car I find she shouldn’t be liable for any payments for the period starting in May 2022 and 
ending when the repairs have been completed and any adverse information recorded on her 
credit file during this period should be removed. 
I note Mrs H’s suggestion for dealing with any issues if she tries to sell the car after the 
repairs, but in this case, having given consideration to the issues raised and all evidence 
provided, I find what I set out in my provisional decision is a fair remedy. That said, given the 
issues and Mrs H’s concerns, I would expect CCF to work with Mrs H after the repairs in the 
event she does wish to exit her agreement. 
Putting things right
Having thought about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint I 
think the offers made in regard to the inspection and repair are reasonable.
CCF should ensure that:

the car’s gearbox is repaired at no cost to Mrs H;

the car’s timing belt and water pump are inspected, and any necessary repairs 
undertaken at no cost to Mrs H.
Additional to the above, I also find that:

the missing undercover should be replaced at no cost to Mrs H.
As Mrs H hasn’t been able to use the car since May 2022:

Mrs H should not be liable for any payments that fall due in the period starting May 
2022 and ending on the date the car has been repaired and returned to Mrs H at no 
cost to her;

CCF should remove any adverse information that has been recorded on Mrs H’s 
credit file from May 2022 until the car has been returned.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3921411
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA.
What happened
In January 2014, Miss M bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company, which 
I’ll call “G”, using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Miss M made a claim to Creation. She said that she was told by G that the system would pay 
for itself so she would be better off each month, but this was a misrepresentation, and she’s 
suffered a financial loss as a result (the s.75 claim). Miss M also said that her relationship 
with Creation was unfair on her (complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A). 
Creation treated this as a complaint and dismissed it on the grounds that under the Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which set out how financial 
businesses should handle complaints, the complaint had been made too late – more than six 
years after the events Miss M was complaining about. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss M referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Miss M’s complaint, they ultimately thought that: 

The s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act, so dismissing 
the claim was a reasonable response. 

The unfair relationship (s.140A) complaint was one we could look at under our rules 
and that it had been referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Miss M and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Miss M keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Miss M had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. 
Miss M accepted the investigator’s view. 
Creation disagreed. It maintained that the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction due to 
having been brought too late under the DISP Rules. It said that any alleged unfairness arose 
due to events that took place more than 6 years before Miss M made her complaint. So, we 
should not consider the merits of the complaint. 
As the complaint has not been resolved, I’ve been asked to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to our jurisdiction to consider the complaint 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (the ‘FSMA’) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook known as 
DISP. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook. The rules surrounding time limits are set out in DISP 
2.8.2R which include that: 
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service: 
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or 
(2) more than: 
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later) 
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint; 
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received” 
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to look at Miss M’s s.75 and s.140A complaints 
before turning to address their merits.
My findings on jurisdiction 
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 complaint 
Where Creation is exercising its rights and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying on a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the ‘RAO’). 
In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, if a debtor 
advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to honour 
that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Miss M’s s.75 
claim on 11 November 2021. Miss M brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman 
service on 5 January 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in 
time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A
Miss M is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between her and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complaint of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continues, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships 
– where if the credit relationship is continuing an assessment of whether a relationship is 
unfair is made as at the date of assessment, and if the credit relationship has ended, as at 
the date the relationship ended:  Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34. 
In this case, the relationship was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman 
service on 5 January 2022, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of 
DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a). I am satisfied that I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about the 
alleged unfair relationship per s.140A in the circumstances. 
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 10 January 2014. Miss M brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 7 October 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an agreement 
with Creation. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss M. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Miss M has said that she was told by G’s representative that the system would pay for itself 
so they would be better off each month. 
Miss M has said she had no prior interest in solar panels and G cold-called her. The 
salesperson persisted even when she said she wasn’t interested, and made it sound very 
attractive financially. That it would help her financial situation and she would be no worse off 
each month. At the time Miss M was the sole income earner, working part-time and receiving 
working tax credits, and had two dependent children. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Miss M to see if there was anything contained 
within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The credit agreement, dated 10 January 2014, shows the following information about the 
loan:

Purchase price
£5,995.00

Interest 
£3,304.92

Total payable 
£9,299.92

120 repayments of 
£77.49 each
So, I think it was clear what Miss M had agreed to pay for the system.
Miss M has provided part of the sales documents which show that the first-year benefit was 
expected to be £680, with lifetime benefits of £25,249.56. It showed that the payback time 
would be eight years. Which is less than the ten-year loan term. 
I don’t think the benefits shown on this document are clear. On the one hand, the first-year 
benefit shown would be insufficient to cover the first-year loan repayments. But on the other 
hand, the document indicates that after eight years the benefits would’ve covered the cost of 
the system.
Given the lack of clarity in the documents, I think there was plenty of scope for Miss M to 
misunderstand what they showed. So, she was likely to be reliant on G to explain things to 
her in terms of how the costs she was agreeing to pay would compare with the benefits of 
the system. 
G was a member of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (“RECC”), which published a 
consent order in August 2015. This referred to a number of complaints about G that it 
received from April 2013 to August 2015. This suggested that G had breached the RECC 
under sections 5.2, 5.3 and 9.1, and had subsequently failed a compliance audit.
RECC 5.2 concerns the behaviour of sales representatives, including that they must not give 
false or misleading information and statements to, or pressurise, consumers. RECC 5.3 
concerns performance information and predictions – including that where a loan is used, any 
payback periods stated must take into account the full amount payable including loan 
interest. 
The consent order indicated that G agreed to a full re-audit within six months to determine if 
the problems identified by the previous audit had been rectified. No further RECC 
disciplinary action took place following this. But the period of time referred to in the consent 
order included the time when Miss M purchased her system from G. So, it seems there were 
issues with how G was selling solar panel systems around that time. 
Looking at Miss M’s sales documents I am concerned by the payback time shown. She had 
agreed to pay 9,299.22 in total through using a loan. Using the assumptions shown on the 
contract, I’ve calculated that the payback time, taking into account the full amount payable, 
would be more than 11 years. So, G should not have told Miss M that system would pay for 
itself within a shorter period. 
Overall, I find what Miss M’s said believable. Bearing in mind her circumstances at the time, 
I’m of the opinion that the system being self-funding would be a key reason for her to 
purchase the system. And she wouldn’t have done so if she’d understood that she would be 
worse off in the short term and only better off overall after more than 11 years. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Miss M’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Miss M agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of around £78, 
payable for 10 years. Given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she took on, I 
find Miss M’s account of what she was told by G is plausible and persuasive. The loan is a 
costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this purchase 
appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she received from G. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £924 per year. Miss M’s system has generated electricity as 
expected, but it has not provided sufficient financial benefits to pay for itself either on a 
monthly basis or within the loan term. So, the statements made to Miss M by G were not 
true. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, I think G’s 
representative would have known that Miss M’s system would not produce enough benefits 
to cover the loan repayments in the way she was told.
Considering Miss M’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown 
at the time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t disputed what she’s said, I think it likely G 
gave Miss M a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Miss M was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Miss M went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Miss M’s 
point of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Miss M in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Miss M and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Miss M and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Miss M a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Miss M’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Miss M received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so Miss M pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Miss M received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Miss M will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Miss M’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe caused Miss M some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in 
addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Miss M £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Miss M’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Miss M has 
made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Miss M’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Miss M should have paid each month towards the loan 
over that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Miss M 
*Where Miss M has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how much it’s taken off. It 
should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also think the way Creation handled Miss M’s complaint has caused her trouble and upset, 
and an award of £100 is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3924131
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 24 September 2013, Mrs M agreed to a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation for a 
solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M”. The loan amount was for 
£4,741 and the total amount payable under the agreement was £7,764.04 and it was due 
to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £63.03.
Mrs M complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss.
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs M on 21 September 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 11 November 2021. Creation considered Mrs M had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs M brought her complaint to this service on 29 November 2021 as 
she was unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs M asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs M’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs M and 
Creation. 
On 3 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs M keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs M had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs M accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 17 January 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel. On 9 June 2023 Creation told us it disagreed with our 
assessment and disagreed with our view on redress. So, the case was progressed to the 
next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 June 2024, a section of which is included below, and 
forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out the reasons why it was my 
intention to uphold Mrs M’s complaint. I set out an extract below:
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My provisional findings
Jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs M’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs M’s s.75 
claim on 11 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs M brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 29 
November 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs M. Here the relationship 
was still in existence when Mrs M brought her complaint to this service on 29 November 
2021 as the loan was still being repaid. So, the complaint has been brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 24 September 2013. Mrs O brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 21 September 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an 
agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not 
accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
M. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs M has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity she would receive and the savings 
she would make. Mrs M has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I 
haven’t seen any evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs M to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs M on 24 September 2013, sets out Mrs M’s 
responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied 
the loan was taken in Mrs M’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs M to compare her total costs against the 
financial benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the 
contract doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mrs M would have looked to M’s 
representative to help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would 
bring in and how much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a 
decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs M said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs M left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £63, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on, I find Mrs M’s account of what she was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £756 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs M’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs M’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. The evidence suggests the solar system was not self-funding.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs M’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs M’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs M.
Considering Mrs M’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs M a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs M’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs M was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs M went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs M’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs M in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs M and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs M and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs M a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs M’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’).
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs M’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mrs M has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs 
M.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs M received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs M received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs M may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Given that the 10 year loan was signed for on 24 September 2013, it seems likely that the 
loan has now been repaid. Either party can let me know if that is not the case. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs M made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs M’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs M should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs M. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs M
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 July 2024. Mrs M has accepted the provisional findings. At the 
time of writing, Creation has not acknowledged receiving the provisional decision, made any 
further submissions or asked for an extension to do so. I consider that both parties have had 
sufficient time to make a further submission had they wished to do so. So, I’m proceeding to 
my final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that there’s no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve already set out my full reasons for 
upholding Mrs M’s complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
Putting things right
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as
detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mrs M’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3925085
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr F has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr F has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr F throughout. 
 
What happened 
On 17 November 2014, Mr F bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for nearly £10,000 
and the monthly repayments were roughly £129 for 120 months. 
 
Mr F complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation.  
 
Mr F raised his complaint to Creation on 9 September 2021. Creation issued a final 
response letter dated 11 November 2021. Creation considered Mr F had brought his claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr F asked us to review his complaint. Mr F 
brought his complaint to this service on 8 December 2021.  
 
An investigator considered Mr F’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr F and 
Creation.  
 
On 10 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr F keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr F had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mr F accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 14 February 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension. Creation later told us that it still 
felt the case was not in our jurisdiction and it suggested the redress was incorrect in not 
 
 
following court precedent. As Creation did not accept the investigator’s assessment, the 
case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 1 July 2024, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out 
the reasons why it was my intention to uphold Mr T’s complaint. I set out an extract below: 
 
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr F’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr F’s s.75 claim 
on 11 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mr F brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 8 
December 2021. So, his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr F. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 8 December 2021, 
so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
F.  
 
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr F has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels.  
 
Mr F also told us that, 
 
• 
“When discussing what I could afford to pay on a monthly basis, the sales rep 
predicted that the fit payments I would receive would offset about two thirds of the 
repayments, the remaining third being what I could comfortably afford.  
 
• 
The above is the main reason I decided to purchase the solar panels.” 
 
Mr F said that he was told by M’s representative that two thirds of the cost of the system 
would be fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive. I’ve looked at the 
documents provided by Mr F to see if there was anything contained within it that made it 
clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t provide that much financial benefit.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr F on 17 November 2014, sets out Mr F’s 
responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the 
loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m 
satisfied the loan was taken in Mr F’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr F to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr F would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. 
 
I’ve also looked at M’s website from around the time of the sale. The cache of the website 
I have seen is from June 2014 (five months before the agreement was signed). I am 
satisfied on this occasion it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mr F. 
 
On the page the deals with solar power, it says: 
 
“Installing Solar PV panels will not only bring down the cost of supplying electricity to your 
home or business but will actually bring long-term financial benefits by earning you money 
for years to come. 
 
Not only will Solar PV panels help you save money on bills, they will also generate you 
tax-free income, and a return of investment of up to 15 per cent for 20 years under 
Government funding incentives to increase levels of green energy.” 
 
  
And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mr F dealt with would’ve said 
similar things to those M produced in its promotional literature. 
 
After a first meeting, M sent Mr F a letter summarising the solar system it could provide. I 
have read that letter and noted that it claims it has enclosed an estimated Feed in Tariff 
and Energy Saving sheet. Mr F said that estimate was not enclosed in the letter. I have 
 
 
considered Mr F’s testimony and that Mr F has kept safe for many years other documents 
from the time of the sale. It seems more likely that the document wasn’t enclosed. In any 
event, without it, we can’t know what that document may have contained. I note that there 
was little or no words of caution about the likely performance of solar panels on M’s 
website from around the time of the sale.  
 
Taking all of the promotional material into account, the evidence suggests to me that it 
supports the testimony provided by Mr F. He told us he was told that the solar panels 
would provide a significant income and the details I have seen suggest that the rate of 
income was indicated to be greater than the interest rate Mr F was to pay on the loan he 
would need to take out to provide the solar panels.  
 
As mentioned above, Mr F told us that B told him the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off two thirds of the cost of the loan and that he would be able to afford 
comfortably the remaining third of the loan. I have noted that our investigator thought that 
Mr P’s testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their 
assessment. I have noted that Creation has not responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr F said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mr F left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £129, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mr F’s account of what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from M.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,551 per year. For the solar panels to pay for two thirds of the 
cost of the borrowing, as M’s representative told Mr F, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of around £1,034 per year. I have not seen anything to 
indicate Mr F’s system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to 
produce that and Mr F’s testimony is that it didn’t. And the information I have seen 
suggests that the solar panel system failed to generate anything close to the sort of 
income required to meet two thirds of Mr F’s loan repayments. 
 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr F’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr F’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover two thirds of the cost of the borrowing in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mr F. 
 
Considering Mr F’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr F a false and misleading impression of the likely 
financial benefits of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr F’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr F was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund two thirds of the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that 
effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr F went into the transaction. 
 
 
Either way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the 
purpose of the transaction from Mr F’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr F in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the likely financial benefits of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr F and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
two thirds of the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid 
on a loan he would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr F’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.  
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mr F and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the likely financial benefits of the solar panel system. I require 
Creation to repay Mr F a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr F’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. But Mr F told us he expected the financial benefits of the solar panels would 
meet only two thirds of the cost of the loan. So, when the final calculation is performed the 
award should be two thirds of any amount calculated.  
 
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that, I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mr F’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mr F has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr 
F. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
 
 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr F received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than two thirds of that 
amount. To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr F received by way of 
FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr F may need to supply up to date 
details to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use 
assumptions when information is not available.  
 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr F’s monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that he would’ve paid more each month than he should’ve done resulting 
in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. 
 
Mr F told us that the loan is still running.  
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr F made towards two thirds of the loan up until the 
date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr F’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr F should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr F.  
• 
Give Mr F the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments. 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr F 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and 
informal.” 
 
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 15 July 2024. At the time of writing neither party has accepted my 
provisional findings, acknowledged the provisional decision, made a further submission or 
asked for an extension to do so. I think that both parties have had time sufficient to have 
made a further submission had they wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final 
decision.  
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
So, as neither party has provided any new information or argument for me to consider 
following my provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve 
already set out my full reasons (above) for upholding Mr F’s complaint, I have nothing further 
to add.  
 
So, having looked again at all the submissions made in this complaint, I am upholding Mr F’s 
complaint and require Creation to calculate and pay the fair compensation detailed above.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mr F’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation 
as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3925942
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) declined her claim for a 
refund of a defective sofa under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss B bought a sofa for £2,141, and paid for it with a three year interest-
free loan from Creation. In August 2020 she complained that the leather was cracking and 
peeling. This was repaired at the time, but the defect was not identified as a manufacturing 
fault.1
In July 2022 Miss B again reported damage to the leather. This time, the repairman (who 
was sent by the retailer’s insurance company) said in a written report that the damage was 
the result of a manufacturing fault. He went on to say: “Fabric not bonded correctly at the 
manufacturing stages. No signs of pet damage at all no scratches.” That conclusion was not 
disputed until recently. At the time, it was accepted by the retailer and by Creation that both 
faults, in 2020 and in 2022, were manufacturing faults for which the retailer and, under 
section 75, Creation were liable.
The retailer offered Miss B a refund of 20% of the value of the sofa. Miss B rejected that 
offer, as she now wanted to reject the sofa. She asked Creation for a full refund under 
section 75. Creation contacted the retailer about her claim, and the retailer made a new offer 
of either 40% credit towards new goods, or a 40% refund and “uplifting” the sofa. (This was 
later described as 20% compensation topped up with another 20% as a gesture of good 
will.) Miss B did not accept that offer either, and so one of our investigators considered her 
case.
Our investigator decided that the manufacturing defect should have been discovered in 
August 2020, when the damage was first reported. He recommended that Creation allow 
Miss B to reject the sofa, pay her a refund of 90% of what she had paid for it, and pay 
interest on the refund at 8% a year from December 2018 to the date of settlement. He 
thought that a 90% refund was fair because Miss B had had some use of the sofa before the 
damage had appeared.
Creation did not accept that opinion. It obtained a further report (I have not seen the original, 
but Creation has copied the text into an email). This said that it was not possible to rule out 
that some of the damage had been caused by a pet, although there was also evidence that 
some of the damage was indeed a manufacturing fault, and the author of the report did not 
think that this had started as pet damage. Creation also provided an email from the retailer 
explaining how it had calculated that a 20% refund fairly reflected the use Miss B had had of 
the sofa prior to complaining about it. Creation asked for an ombudsman’s decision.
1 Another repair had been carried out in March 2018, but this was not about the leather but a chair 
arm which was loose. That is not part of this complaint, and so I have not considered it.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that there is clear evidence in both reports that there was a manufacturing fault. The 
only difference between the two reports is that the first one says there was no pet damage at 
all, and the more recent one says there is some damage which could be pet damage, but 
also some other damage which is definitely the result of a manufacturing fault. That suggests 
that if there is pet damage, then it was probably caused at some time between the reports, 
but I think the alleged pet damage is a red herring, as both reports say there is a 
manufacturing fault, and so I am satisfied that the sofa was defective at the point of sale, 
Creation is liable for that under section 75.
For that reason, I am satisfied that Miss B was entitled to reject the sofa under sections 20 
and 24 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, and to receive a refund of what she had paid for it. 
Under section 24(8), Creation is entitled to reduce the refund “to take account of the use the 
consumer has had of the goods in the period since they were delivered.” This is called a 
“deduction for use.” There is significant disagreement about how much that deduction should 
be, and the Act does not elaborate on how it should be calculated. So it now falls to me to 
determine what would be a fair and reasonable deduction.
As I’ve said, the sofa was delivered in January 2018. The retailer calculated a deduction for 
the period up to the second reported leather damage; that is, up to July 2022, or about 54 
months.  But I think that the manufacturing fault should have been identified in August 2020, 
when the leather damage was first reported. If that had happened, then Miss B would have 
been entitled to reject the sofa back then, and it’s likely that she would have exercised that 
right. So I will award a deduction for the use of the sofa up until August 2020. That comes to 
31 months.
The retailer has explained that it calculated the use period as a proportion of the limitation 
period for bringing a claim for breach of contract under the Limitation Act 1980, which is six 
years. It rounded down the 54 months of use to four years. Four years is two thirds of six 
years, so the deduction for use amount came to two thirds, which gives a refund of 33%. 
(This means that the retailer’s original offer of a 20% refund was not enough by its own 
measure, but its revised offer of 40% was more than enough.)
I do not agree with that approach. The usual lifetime of a leather sofa should be about 15 to 
20 years, so I don’t think it is fair to work out the deduction for use based on a period of only 
six years.
I will only round the use period to the nearest month; as I’ve said, I’m using 31 months. 15 to 
20 years is 180 to 240 months. 31 months is 17% to 13% of that; the average of those 
percentages is 15%. So I think it would be fair to reduce a full refund by 15%, making a 
refund of 85% of £2,141, which comes to £1,819.85. (That is about £107 less than the 
investigator recommended.) I will add simple interest to the refund at the rate of 8% a year, 
from 20 August 2020 (the date of the first leather damage) to the date of settlement.
I also think that Creation should pay Miss B £100 for her inconvenience.
(As the difference between the compensation I am awarding and the compensation the 
investigator recommended is only £7.05 (and some interest), I have not thought it necessary 
to write a provisional decision in this case.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Miss B:

£1,819.85, plus simple interest on that sum at the rate of eight per cent a year from 
20 August 2020 to the date of settlement, and

£100 for her inconvenience.
(If Creation considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much it’s taken off. It should also give Miss B a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. Miss B should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has 
taken, and both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3927359
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) failed to take account of a
payment she made to settle her account and were therefore wrong to report adverse
information to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
There’s no dispute here that Creation made a mistake. They failed to attribute a payment
Mrs B made towards her account in December 2020.
I can see that the payment was eventually identified and credited towards the account
settlement in May 2022, but it wasn’t until December 2022 that Creation confirmed to us that
they had removed the adverse reports they had been continuing to make to the credit
reference agencies.
I’m pleased to see that the issue has now been resolved but it’s clearly now necessary for
Creation to compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience she’s experienced.
Putting things right
Creation caused quite a bit of distress and inconvenience here as they failed to credit a
payment to Mrs B’s account and when they recognised that error they also failed to amend
the adverse reports they were making to the credit reference agencies. The error persisted
for a long time and once the mistake had been identified I think Creation should have
recognised the distress they had caused and have provided some compensation, but they
didn’t.
Mrs B has explained, and Creation accept, that she was in regular contact with the business
to get this issue resolved. She’s told us she’s been very upset about the matter and that
she’s been unable to sleep and has been tearful. I can see that she had made Creation
aware that the issue was affecting her health as their system notes show she told them the
matter was making her sick in October 2021. I think the default on her credit file may have
made it more difficult for Mrs B to obtain credit, but I’ve not seen evidence of that or of any
financial difficulty as a result of the credit file report.
I’ve considered how much Creation should pay Mrs B to compensate her for the distress and
inconvenience caused and I don’t think £250 is sufficient in the circumstances. I think this
issue has created considerable distress, upset, and worry for Mrs B and she’s had to make
significant efforts to sort it out. The impact has been prolonged, and the business response
has been slow, especially as they were aware that the matter was affecting Mrs B’s health.
In the circumstances, I think Creation should pay Mrs B £500 to compensate her for the
distress and inconvenience she’s been caused.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I’m expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Creation
Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B £500 in compensation in respect of the distress and
inconvenience she’s experienced.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B didn’t provide any further information and Creation accepted my provisional decision 
with no further comments.
Putting things right
I’ve not been provided with any new information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision now becomes my final decision on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I’m telling Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs B 
£500 in compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience she’s experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3927761
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms D has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
Ms D is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
In October 2013, Ms D entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. He paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Creation, which was 
repayable over ten years.
The CMC wrote to Creation in 2020 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to 
provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor 
(Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met. 
Ms D’s claim was that she was told the system would pay for itself within the loan term. 
Creation responded to say it had no liability because the claim was made outside of the time 
limits for such claims which are set out in the Limitation Act 1980.
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms D raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service. 
One of our investigators reviewed things but concluded that Creation had not acted unfairly 
by rejecting Ms D’s s.75 claim. In summary, our investigator said that Ms D’s claim was 
made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. So, Creation’s response to 
the claim was reasonable.
Ms D did not accept this. The CMC made a number of points, but essentially said that we 
should consider the claim under s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act, which deals with unfair 
relationships between creditors and debtors. And the CMC implied that the claim had 
originally been made to Creation in 2017. 
Our investigator wasn’t persuaded to change her mind, pointing out that Ms D had not made 
a claim to Creation under s.140. Since our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, 
I’ve been asked to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation has treated Ms D fairly in its response to 
her s.75 claim. There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of Ms D’s 
complaint. In this decision I’ll refer those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
I agree with the investigator that there is no evidence that Ms D has made a claim under 
s.140, so I don’t think Creation needed to respond to such a claim. And it would not be 
appropriate for me to consider this complaint in relation to s.140.
relevant considerations 
Ms D’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can 
be held responsible for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Ms D fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Creation gave for declining Ms D’s claim was that it was made outside of the relevant 
time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
When the claim was made
The CMC suggests the claim was made in 2017 and has provided a letter to Creation from 
that time. This refers to a number of consumers who were sold solar panel systems (without 
naming them). There is nothing to show that Ms D’s claim was included as part of that 
correspondence with Creation. The earliest letter I can see that informs Creation that Ms D 
was making a claim is dated 16 January 2020. So, I think that is the date Ms D made her 
claim. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Ms D’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 are on 
the same basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law – which 
includes breaches of contract. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Ms D says the benefits of the system were the inducement that made her make 
the purchase. But her s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
she entered a contract which wasn’t the value for money she expected. Ms D says were it 
not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then she wouldn’t have entered 
the contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Ms D’s financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the system using a loan, 
which she had a duty to repay. Ms D raised her claim with Creation in January 2020, which 
is more than six years from when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Breach of contract 
s.5 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought 
after the expiration of six years from the date which that cause of action accrued”. 
A breach of contract occurs when one of the parties to that contract doesn’t perform the 
obligations set out in the contract. So, Ms D would have six years to raise a claim from when 
a loss occurred as a result of the breach of contract. 
In my opinion the breach would’ve occurred when the system was installed (and was not 
done with due care or skill or was not as described) and the loss occurred when the loan 
started. Her claim was made more than six years later. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Ms D’s claim against Creation is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament). 
But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s misrepresentation or 
breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Ms D’s claim as I’ve already explained she raised her 
complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Ms D knew, or ought to 
have known, that she had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. 
I think Ms D would’ve known within a few years (at most) that the system was not performing 
in such a way that it would pay for itself within the ten-year loan term. This is because she 
would have three years’ worth of evidence of the benefits of the system, which she could 
compare to the loan repayments. I would usually say one year is sufficient to know the 
benefits were less than the loan repayments. 
The CMC has also suggested a three-year timeframe when it wrote in its letter that, “You 
will no doubt accept, based upon the facts of this case, that a few years of data of 
underperformance is required before a claim can be properly established.” 
The system was installed on 8 November 2013, and three years from then would be 
November 2016. That would allow Ms D until November 2019 to make the claim – which 
doesn’t extend the six-year time limit. As mentioned above, the claim was not made until 
January 2020.
So, I consider it reasonable for Creation to have concluded the claim was made out of time 
and that it had no liability. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Ms D’s s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
I’m satisfied Creation has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Ms D was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms D. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Ms D’s complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3930904
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
What happened
In July 2014, Ms G entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a supplier. 
She paid for the system in part using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation, which was 
repayable over ten years. 
The CMC wrote to Creation September 2021, to make a claim under s.75 on behalf of Ms G. 
The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services 
using credit. The creditor (Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations 
being met. 
Ms G’s claim explained that the system was sold to her as being self-funding – that is that it 
would pay for itself through the benefits it would provide.
Creation responded to say that the claim had been made outside of the time limits that 
apply. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Ms G raised a complaint and referred the matter to this 
Service to look into. One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that Creation 
had not acted unfairly by rejecting Ms G’s claim. 
In summary, our adjudicator said that Ms G’s claim against the supplier of the system was 
made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. As Creation (as the credit 
provider) is liable to the same extent as the supplier, our adjudicator agreed it had acted 
reasonably when saying the ‘like claim’ against it was made too late. 
Creation accepted the adjudicator’s assessment, but Ms G did not. The CMC made a 
number of points, but essentially said that we should consider s.14 of the Consumer Credit 
Act, rather than s.75. And that due to this Ms G had three years from when she became 
aware she had cause to make a claim. The CMC says that Ms G didn’t know she could claim 
until she contacted the CMC, and the claim was made shortly after this. So the claim was not 
made out of time.
Our adjudicator wasn’t persuaded to change their mind. They said that Ms G ought to have 
been aware she had a cause to make a claim a year or two following the installation, so the 
claim was still made outside of the time limits that applied. 
Unhappy with this, Ms G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations 
Ms G’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. The Limitation Act is also relevant because 
Creation relied on this when declining the claim. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can 
be held responsible for a purchase Ms G made using her credit card. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Ms G fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Creation gave for declining Ms G’s claim was that it was made outside of the relevant 
time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Ms G’s rights to claim against Creation are on the same 
basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Ms G says the benefits of the system was the inducement that made her make 
the purchase. But her claim is largely that those benefits were negligently misrepresented 
and so she entered a contract which wasn’t the value for money she expected. Ms G says 
that were it not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then she wouldn’t have 
entered the contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Ms G’s financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the system in July 2014 
using a loan, and she began to make repayments. 
Ms G raised her claim with Creation in September 2021, which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Ms G’s claim against Creation is under the 
Consumer Credit Act, so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an 
act of parliament). But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other 
provisions in the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a 
supplier’s misrepresentation or breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the 
shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for breach of contract – and 
gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Ms G’s claim as I’ve already explained she raised her 
complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Ms G knew, or ought to 
have known, that she may have a claim for misrepresentation or negligence against the 
supplier. 
Ms G’s complaint is that the system was not self-funding. I think she was aware at the time 
of sale how much she would be paying each month (and year) to repay the loan. So, once 
she had evidence of the benefits the system was providing, she would be in a position to 
know if the system was self-funding or not. I think she ought to have known this about one 
year after installation, since by that point she would have one year’s worth of feed-in tariff 
(“FIT”) statements and electricity bills. This would allow her to compare the benefits (what 
she was receiving in FIT payments and how much less she was paying for electricity 
compared to before installation) with the loan repayments. 
Given when I think Ms G ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation or 
negligence, s.14A does not extend the time limits referred to above. So, I consider it 
reasonable for Creation to have concluded the claim was made out of time, and that Ms G 
did know, or ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation more than three 
years before she made her claim. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Ms G’s claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether or 
not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under the Limitation 
Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, I’m 
satisfied Creation has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Ms G was unable to make a claim within time, and so I 
cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms G. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold Ms G’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3935538
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t proceed with the provision of a 
finance agreement after it had been approved.
Mrs K is represented by a family member. But for ease of reference, I have referred to Mrs K 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In July 2022 Mrs K made an application for credit and was approved for a credit plan with a 
£500 credit limit. She visited the retailer to make purchases under the plan and after these 
were scanned there was an issue, and she wasn’t able to make the purchases using the 
credit plan. Mrs K says that as she was approved with a credit limit of £500 this should be 
reinstated. She says the issue caused her inconvenience.
Creation issued a final response letter dated 16 August 2022. It said that it received a call 
from Mrs K on 15 July 2022 saying she had made an online application for credit in an 
incorrect name. It says Mrs K was correctly told to visit the retailer with identification for 
assistance. Creation then received a call from the retailer which said it was unable to 
continue with Mrs K’s online application and it says it was understood that Mrs K’s initial 
application would be voided so she could make a new application. Due to this the order 
Mrs K had made with the retailer was cancelled. Creation didn’t uphold the complaint as it 
said there was no evidence that Mrs K’s application had been incorrectly handled and that 
Mrs K could make a new application if she wished.
Mrs K wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold this complaint. He noted the issues that Mrs K had 
experienced but didn’t find there was evidence to say that Creation had done anything 
wrong.
Mrs K didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. She said that the credit was approved under 
her married name and that she provided identification to the retailer. She said that she hadn’t 
been told why her account was reduced to zero. She said this had caused her 
inconvenience because she was unable to get the products she wanted and had to spend 
time in store dealing with this issue as well as on calls to Creation.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I have looked at the agreements Mrs K has provided and these show that on 15 July 2022, 
she was approved for a credit plan with a credit limit of £500. She was sent an email about 
the credit plan which said the next steps were to (1) visit the retailer with a copy of the 
approval email, (2) show this to the sales assistant so the purchases can be processed 
using the credit plan and (3) provide identification. This was required to complete the 
account set up.
Creation has said it received a call from Mrs K saying that while she had made the credit 
application in her married name her passport was in her maiden name. The notes from the 
call show she was told to send her passport and proof of address and take her document 
into the retailer for the application to be processed. I find this reasonable.
Mrs K explained that after being approved for the finance she visited the retailer, signed the 
documents and tried to buy some products. The products were scanned but there was then 
an issue with the system and her application was deleted and she was told she would need 
to apply again. She didn’t want to do this due to the impact on her credit file. While I can 
understand how frustrating this must have been, it isn’t clear that the issue arose due to a 
fault of Creation. 
Creation has explained that it received a call from the retailer saying it was unable to 
continue with the application that had been made online. It isn’t clear if this is a result of the 
issue noted in regard to Mrs K’s name and her identification, but given the issue raised and 
noting the call Creation had previously received I do not find it unreasonable the application 
was voided so that a new application could be made.
I appreciate this would have been an inconvenience for Mrs K but given the sequence of 
events I do not find I can say the actions taken were unreasonable. Mrs K was able to make 
a new application which would be subject to the usual checks which I find a reasonable 
outcome.
I appreciate that Mrs K feels she has been disadvantaged by not being able to buy the 
products she wanted through the credit plan and by the time spent dealing with the issue, 
but in this case, but, on balance, I do not find that the evidence shows that Creation did 
anything wrong. Therefore, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3935681
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr D has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr D has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr D throughout.  
What happened 
In October 2014 Mr D entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£17,670 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. Mr D contributed 
£3,534 to the deal through a deposit, so the amount borrowed from Creation was £14,136. 
The total amount payable under the agreement was £25,672.31 and it was due to be paid 
back with 120 monthly repayments of £184.48. There was a £135 arrangement fee and 
interest of £7,867.31.  
In December 2021 Mr D sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He said S told him he’d effectively be paid for the electricity the system 
generated through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system 
would be self-funding within the loan term. He said S told him his energy bills would go 
down; he’d receive a guaranteed income for 20 years; he’d earn up to 10% annually tax free; 
his property value would increase; and the system was maintenance free with a 25-year life 
expectancy. He said the system was misrepresented and believed statements and several 
other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation.  
Creation wrote to Mr D in February 2022 to say it was unable to provide a response due to 
internal delays. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr D decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in May 2022. Creation wrote to the Financial Ombudsman to say it thought the 
claim had been brought out of time and that it had no liability.   
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr D the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought S 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
Mr D accepted the view, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things 
weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr D. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mr D complained to Creation in 2021 and referred his complaint to the ombudsman 
service in 2022, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr D says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr D says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr D to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
Neither Mr D nor Creation has been able to supply any other point of sale documentation 
that shows the estimated benefits of the system. So I can’t see there was an easy way for 
Mr D to have compared the overall costs with the benefits he’d likely receive.  
 
 
Mr D provided testimony to say he was partially but not fully interested in solar panels before 
S spoke to him. He was 62 at the point of sale, earning around £25,000 and was self-
employed.  He said his motivation in buying the system was that he thought it would be a 
sensible financial move. He said S told him the system would produce free energy and that it 
would pay for itself.  
I’ve also looked at S’s website from around the time Mr D bought the system. I can see the 
website sets out the option for customers to spread payments to help bring the start of their 
investment forward. It goes on to say The savings will outweigh the interest paid! It also 
markets the systems as being able to generate a return on investment of between 8% and 
12%.  
I think it follows that if the website sets out the return on investment, and that savings would 
outweigh interest paid, it’s likely this formed a central part of the discussions between S and 
Mr D when he bought the system.  
I think Mr D’s account of what he was told seems consistent and credible.  
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr D said happened. Yet Mr D left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£184.48, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr D’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £2,200 per year. However, based on the yield of 
the system importantly the system won’t provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the 
term of the loan. So, these statements were not true. I think S’s representative must 
reasonably have been aware that Mr D’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think S’s representative would have known that Mr D’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mr D. 
Considering Mr D’s account about what he was told, the documentation, the website and 
that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr D a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr D was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr D went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr D’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr D in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr D 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
The s.75 complaint 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr D’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr D and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr D a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr D’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr D received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr D received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr D 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr D’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr D some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what 
I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr D £100. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr D’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr D has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr D’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
settlement* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr D should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr D 
 
 
• 
If required, use Mr D’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will 
receive for the period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the 
original loan term* – D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr D to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early. 
• 
Pay Mr D an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr D is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3935691
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr A has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr A throughout.
What happened
On 14 September 2015, Mr A bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £11,100 to be 
repaid over 120 months at £143.49 a month. The total cost of the loan would have been 
£17,218.80 and Mr A told us the loan is still running.
Mr A complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and the savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation. 
Mr A raised his complaint to Creation on 12 May 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 19 May 2022. Creation considered Mr A had brought his claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and 
later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Mr A asked us to review his complaint. Mr A brought his complaint to 
this service on 9 June 2022. 
An investigator considered Mr A’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr A and 
Creation. 
On 17 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr A keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr A had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr A accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has provided no response to the 
investigator’s assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, 
an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr A’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr A’s s.75 claim 
on 19 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr A 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 9 June 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr A. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 9 June 2022, so the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 14 September 2015. Mr A brought his s.75 claim to 
Creation on 12 May 2022 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement 
with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
A. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr A has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr A has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr A to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr A on 14 September 2015 and by Creation on 17 
September 2015, sets out Mr A’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being 
purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr A’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr A to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr A would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. There is 
nothing in the documentation I have seen that would have put Mr A on notice that the 
solar panels were not self-funding.
I have noted that the website that M had at the time contains benefit driven statements 
including,
“Generate free electricity by installing Solar Panels” 
And
“Installing Solar Panels on your roof will generate free electricity for your home and, 
thanks to the UK Government’s Feed-in Tariff scheme, will earn you a guaranteed tax free 
income for 20 years. With energy prices at an all time high, solar panels are the perfect 
way to lower your household energy bills and generate you own clean energy.”
Nowhere on the website is there any warning that if the solar panels were taken on 
finance that the income and savings may not be sufficient to meet the loan repayments.
I accept that the above is something that Mr A may not have seen. But I think that the 
representatives of M are likely to have mirrored the benefit driven tone of M’s official 
website at the time of this sale. And similarly, it seems less likely that M’s representatives 
were making balanced warnings about likely performance of the solar panels, when those 
same things were entirely absent from M’s official website.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr A said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr A left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £143, payable for 10 years. And I have considered that Mr A told us 
that at that time he had a young family, with two children in private education. Given his 
lack of prior interest and the financial burden he took on, I find Mr A’s account of what he 
was told by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been 
given the reassurances he’s said he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr A’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,721 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr A’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr A’s testimony is that it didn’t and I’ve been shown no evidence to contradict that.
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr A’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr A’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr A.
Considering Mr A’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr A a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr A’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr A was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr A went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr A’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr A in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr A and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr A and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr A a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr A’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr A received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr A received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr A may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Mr A told us that the loan is still running. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mr A made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mr A’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr A should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mr A. 
Give Mr A the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr A
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr A’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3935755
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr A has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr A has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr A throughout. 
 
What happened 
In April 2014, Mr A bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £9,495 to be repaid over 
120 months at £122.74 a month. In 2023, we were told the loan was still running. It seems 
likely that the loan has now run to term.  
 
Mr A complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and the savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation.  
 
Mr A raised his complaint to Creation on 14 March 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 24 May 2022. Creation considered Mr A had brought his claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and 
later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Mr A asked us to review his complaint. Mr A brought his complaint to 
this service on 8 June 2022.  
 
An investigator considered Mr A’s complaint, they ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr A and 
Creation.  
On 17 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr A keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr A had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. Our investigator also thought that 
Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr A some further 
inconvenience and suggested an award of £100 compensation as a fair way to recognise 
that. 
 
 
 
Mr A accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has provided no response to the 
investigator’s assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, 
an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr A’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr A’s s.75 claim 
on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr A 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 8 June 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr A. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 8 June 2022, so the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 23 April 2014, the date the loan agreement was signed. 
Mr A brought his s.75 claim to Creation on 14 March 2022 that is more than six years after 
he entered into an agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.  
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
 
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
A.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr A has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make.  
Mr A has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr A to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mr A’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other 
things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the 
term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out 
clearly enough for Mr A to be able to understand what was required to be repaid towards 
the agreement. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr A to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr A would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. There is 
nothing in the documentation I have seen that would have put Mr A on notice that the 
solar panels were not self-funding. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but neither Creation 
nor Mr A have provided any.  
 
I’ve looked at M’s website from around the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the 
website before the sale is 16 February 2014. I am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this 
content into account when considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mr 
A. 
 
On the front page there is statement that says, 
 
“Solar panels that pay for themselves… 
 
For more information click here” 
 
If you access more information you are taken to a section with many benefit-driven 
statements including, 
 
 
 
“Want your property to earn you money? Then buy solar panels and earn a tax-free 
income from sunlight with a 20 year guaranteed income. 
 
The introduction of the Government backed ‘Feed in Tariff’ gives you a whole new kind of 
investment, an investment that is 100% green, tax free, guaranteed for 20 years, index 
linked to the rate of inflation take a look at what a ‘paid for’ solar panel system can provide 
you: 
 
• 
Earn up to £700 per year* 
• 
Up to 8-12% tax free return per year* 
• 
20 year guaranteed income 
• 
Index linked 
• 
Government backed.” 
 
Nowhere on the website is there any warning that if the solar panels were taken on 
finance that the income and savings may not be sufficient to meet the loan repayments. 
 
I accept that the above is something that Mr A may not have seen. But I think that the 
representatives of M are likely to have mirrored the benefit driven tone of M’s official 
website at the time of this sale. And similarly, it seems less likely that M’s representatives 
were making balanced warnings about likely performance of the solar panels, when those 
same things were entirely absent from M’s official website. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr A said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr A left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £122.74 payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr A’s account of what he was told by M to be credible 
and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would 
have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said 
he received from M.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr A’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,472.88 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr A’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr A’s testimony is that it didn’t and I’ve been shown no evidence to contradict that. I have 
noted the FIT payment information that Mr A has supplied show that he was not earning 
anything close to enough to cover the cost of the loan repayments.  
 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr A’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr A’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr A. 
 
Considering Mr A’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr A a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr A’s account to be plausible 
and convincing. 
 
 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr A was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr A went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr A’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr A in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr A and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
Putting things right 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mr A and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr A a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr A’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr A received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr A received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr A may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available.  
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr A made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr A’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits he received over the 10 year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr A should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr A.  
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr A 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
 
 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
  
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr A’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3935926
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr E has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr E has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr E throughout.  
What happened 
In November 2013 Mr E entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£8,685 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £13,681.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £114.01. There was a £135 arrangement fee and interest of 
£4,861.20.  
In January 2022 Mr E sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said P told him he’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said P told him his energy bills would go down; he’d receive 
a guaranteed income for 20 years; he’d earn up to 10% annually tax free; his property value 
would increase; and the system was maintenance free with a 25-year life expectancy.  
Mr E said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in May 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr E decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in June 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mr E the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought P 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr E. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman so the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr E.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr E says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr E says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr E to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. 
I’ve been supplied a copy of a purchase order I can see Mr E signed around the time he 
signed the fixed sum loan. The purchase order sets out the total cost of the system but 
doesn’t include any estimates of the savings Mr E would make. And it doesn’t set out the 
interest that’s charged under the credit agreement. Based on the documents provided, I’ve 
 
 
not seen there was an easy way for Mr E to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
Mr E said he was aware the FIT payments had reduced and wasn’t sure it would make 
financial sense to instal the system. But he says P assured him, that even with the reduction 
in FIT, the system would still be self-financing and that it would take around 8 years for the 
income to cover the initial cost. I think he means this to have been the cash price given his 
original complaint set out he was told the system would pay for the loan payments i.e., it 
would be self-funding within the loan term. Mr E has said he only agreed to the purchase 
because P told him the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to 
understand why, in this particular case, Mr E would have agreed to the installation if his 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly.  
Given the purchase order doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr E would have 
looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, what 
they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. 
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct in 2014, and it determined that P was in breach of a 
number of sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two 
sections relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to 
consumers and providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the 
product sold. 
 
While I appreciate the findings from RECC were for different cases I think they indicate there 
were conduct concerns in the areas related to Mr E’s complaint around the time he was sold 
the system. 
 
I’ve also looked at a copy of P’s website from May 2013 because Mr E says the financial 
benefits were discussed. On the main page it states – 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated -  
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mr E’s 
testimony that P’s representative told him the system would pay for itself.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of over £1,350 per year. But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mr E’s system 
achieved anywhere near the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the 
term of the agreement. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be 
estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have 
known that Mr E’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
system in the timescales stated verbally to him. I therefore find the representations that were 
likely made weren’t true. 
Considering Mr E’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the RECC findings; 
and that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr E a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr E’s account of what he was told by P, 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he 
would have seen this purchase appealing had P not given the reassurances he said he 
received.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr E expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr E went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr E’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr E in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr E and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr E a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr E’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Mr E more recently mentioned he had to pay to replace an inverter, but as this wasn’t part of 
the complaint brought to Creation, I think he’d need to take it up with Creation in the first 
instance if he wants to pursue that complaint.  
 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr E received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr E received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr E 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr E some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mr E also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr E’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.   
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr E’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr E has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mr E’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr E should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr E 
• 
Pay Mr E £100 compensation 
*Where Mr E is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3938769
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss K has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA.
What happened
In April 2015, Miss K bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “G”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
In January 2022, Miss K complained to Creation through a Claims Management Company 
(“CMC”) that she was told by G that the energy savings and income from the system would 
cover the cost of the loan so she would be no worse off each month. She says that hasn’t 
happened and she’s suffered a financial loss. She also said that what happened at the time 
of the sale created an unfair relationship between her and Creation. 
Creation responded to say that under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which set out 
how it should deal with complaints, it was able to dismiss the complaint because it was made 
too late. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss K referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Creation told us that in addition to what it had told Miss K, the s.75 
claim was made too late due to the provisions in the Limitation Act (“LA”).
Our Investigator considered Miss K’s complaint, they ultimately thought that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Miss K and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Miss K keep the system and Creation make sure that 
she paid no more for it that the benefits it would provide over ten years. 
Miss K accepted the investigator’s view. Creation didn’t respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Miss K’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Miss K’s s.75 claim 
on 15 February 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Miss K brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 15 June 2022. So, 
her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss K. Here the relationship ended on 19 
April 2019, and the complaint was referred to the ombudsman service on 15 June 2022. So, 
the complaint has been brought within six years of the relationship ending and is in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and cause of action arose when an agreement 
was entered into on 23 April 2015. Miss K brought her s.75 claim to Creation on 28 January 
2022. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with Creation. Given 
this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss K. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Miss K has said that she was told by G’s representative that the energy savings and income 
from the system would cover the cost of the loan so she would be no worse off each month. 
Miss K has said she was cold called by G about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Miss K to see if there was anything contained 
within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. But there 
is not. The credit agreement set out what Miss K had agreed to pay. But there is nothing 
showing the expected income and savings that the system was expected to provide. So, 
Miss K was reliant on what the salesperson told her about the benefits. 
I’m mindful that around the time of sale G had been found to be in breach of the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code (“RECC”) by its Non-Compliance Panel, including in relation to 
misleading customers and providing inaccurate information about the benefits of solar 
panels. Those issues were not rectified, and G confirmed to be in full compliance with the 
code, until sometime after Miss K’s purchase. 
Creation hasn’t provided any compelling evidence to dispute Miss K’s recollection of what 
happened. It referred to a satisfaction note but has not provided a copy of this despite me 
asking it to. In any case that was only provided after the installation was completed, so 
would not have influenced Miss K’s decision to buy. 
So, based on the evidence available to me, despite having no prior interest in solar panels, 
Miss K agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of £98.95, payable for 
ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she took on I find Miss K’s 
account of what she was told by G to be plausible and persuasive and most likely is an 
accurate reflection of what happened. 
The system hasn’t provided the benefits Miss K was told to expect. So, what she was told 
was not true. I think G’s representative ought reasonably to have been aware that Miss K’s 
system would not have produced sufficient benefits to cover her monthly loan repayments.
Considering Miss K’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown 
at the time of the sale, and that Creation hasn’t disputed this, I think it likely G gave Miss K a 
false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I think that G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Miss K was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. And that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Miss K went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Miss K’s 
point of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Miss K in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Miss K and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would not otherwise have taken out.
Putting things right
I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the unfairness of Miss K and 
Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false assurances as to the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Miss K a sum that 
corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a result of G’s 
assurances. That is, that Miss K’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the credit agreement based 
on the known and assumed savings and income Miss K received from the system over the 
10-year term of the loan, so Miss K pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important 
to consider the benefit Miss K received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Miss K will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr H’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe caused Mr H some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this Creation 
should also pay Mr H additional compensation as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Miss K’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (loan repayments, deposit, fees and charges) Miss K 
has made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A

Use Miss K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the date of settlement* – B

Use B to recalculate what Miss K should have paid each month towards the loan 
over that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Miss K

Use Miss K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she will receive for the 
period between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan.

Pay Miss K £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
*Where Miss K has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity
bills and/or FIT benefits, Creation should complete the calculation using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss K how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Miss K a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax  
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3938839
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs J has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mrs J has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer 
to Mrs J throughout.
What happened
On 2 March 2014, Mrs J bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan amount was for £8,995 
with the total amount payable under the agreement including the deposit, interest and fees 
being roughly £14,162. The loan was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of 
£118.02. 
Mrs J complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs J on 22 February 2022. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 24 May 2022. Creation considered Mrs J had brought 
her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on 
dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint that they had no obligation under 
section 75 of the CCA for the same reason. Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs J 
asked us to review her complaint. Mrs J brought her complaint to this service on 15 June 
2022. 
An investigator considered Mrs J’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs J and 
Creation. 
On 12 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs J keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs J had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs J accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further 
submissions had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs J’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs J’s s.75 claim 
on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs 
J brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 15 June 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs J. The loan was still 
running when the complaint was brought to this service on 15 June 2022. So, the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
J. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs J has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs J has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs J to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs J on 2 March 2022, sets out Mrs J’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement 
it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan 
was taken in Mrs J’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs J to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs J would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs J said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs J left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £118, payable for ten years. And I note at the time of the sale, Mrs J 
and her husband had two young children and a modest family income based on Mrs J’s 
part time employment. So, given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she 
took on, I find Mrs J’s account of what she was told by M to be credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she received 
from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs J’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1416 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs J’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs J’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs J’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs J’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs J.
Considering Mrs J’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs J a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs J’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs J was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs J went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mrs J’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs J in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs J and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Miss B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs J and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs J a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs J’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs J received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs J received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs J may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs J’s monthly repayments would
reduce, meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs J made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs J’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs J should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs J. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs J
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs J’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3939071
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mrs A has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer 
to Mrs A throughout.
What happened
On 25 March 2014, Mrs A bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan amount was for £8,995 
with the total amount payable under the agreement including the deposit, interest and fees 
being roughly £14,162. The loan was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of 
£118.02. 
Mrs A complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs A on 4 November 2020. Unhappy 
with Creation’s lack of a response, Mrs A asked us to review her complaint. Mrs A brought 
her complaint to this service on 21 March 2021. Creation issued a final response letter 
dated 5 November 2021. Creation considered Mrs A had brought her claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and 
later Creation said that they had no obligation under section 75 of the CCA for the same 
reason. 
An investigator considered Mrs A’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs A and 
Creation. 
On 16 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs A keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs A had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs A accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further 
submissions had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs A’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs A’s s.75 
claim on 5 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs A brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 
March 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs A. Mrs A told us that the 
loan was still running up to 2019. Her complaint was brought to this service on 21 March 
2021. So, the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
A. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs A has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs A has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs A to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs A on 25 March 2014, sets out Mrs A’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement 
it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan 
was taken in Mrs A’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs A to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs A would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs A said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs A left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £118, payable for ten years. And I note that Mrs A told us that she 
was retired and living on a modest income with no spare affordability, at the time of the 
sale. So, given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs 
A’s account of what she was told by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly 
long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this purchase as 
appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs A’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1416 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs A’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs A’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs A’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs A’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs A.
Considering Mrs A’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs A a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs A’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs A was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs A went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs A’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs A in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs A and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs A and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs A a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs A’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs A received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs A received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs A may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs A’s monthly repayments would
reduce, meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
Mrs A told us that she settled the loan agreement before it ran to term. Mrs A thought this 
happened in 2019. 
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mrs A made towards the loan up until she repaid
it – A

Use Mrs A’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs A should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mrs A paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mrs A paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mrs A C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs A
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs A’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3939194
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs J has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 11 June 2013, Mrs J signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mrs J complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, 
and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs J also believed that what happened at the time of 
the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs J on 22 June 2022. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 8 July 2022. Creation considered Mrs J had brought her claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs J brought her 
complaint to this service on 20 July 2022 as she was unhappy with Creation’s response 
and Mrs J asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs J’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs J and 
Creation. 
On 16 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs J keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs J had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs J accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation have now had over a year to respond to the investigator’s findings had it wished 
to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs J’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs J’s s.75 claim 
on 8 July 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs J 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 20 July 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs J. Here the relationship 
was still intact at the time Creation sent their business file to us in 2022. That submission 
showed that Mrs J was still making her payments in August 2022. So, the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 11 June 2013. Mrs J brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
on 22 June 2022, that is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with 
them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the 
s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
J. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs J has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs J has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs J to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs J on 11 June 2013, sets out Mrs J’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mrs J’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs J to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs J would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In June 2014, and later in December 2014, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and 
accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. The findings were 
deemed to be serious enough that the company’s membership of the RECC was 
terminated. 
Whilst I accept that the above are findings based on cases that the RECC were looking at, 
and different to this case, yet the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in 
the areas that relate to Mrs J’s complaint around the time that she was sold her system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs J said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs J left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £118 payable for ten years. And I have considered that Mrs J told us 
that at that time whilst her partner worked full time, she was on maternity leave with a 
young baby and with three other children at home. Mrs J also explained why that she 
agreed to the solar panels as,
“We felt that the offer shown to us would relieve a little pressure on an already tight budget 
- with it being suggested as self funding and potential for a supplementary income 
afterwards.” 
Given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs J’s account 
of what she was told by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term 
commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this purchase as appealing had 
she not been given the reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs J’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,416 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs J’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs J’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs J’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs J’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs J.
Considering Mrs J’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs J a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs J’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs J was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs J went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mrs J’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs J in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs J and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs J and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs J a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs J’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs J received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs J received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs J may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs J made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs J’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs J should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs J. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs J
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs J how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs J a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs J’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3939218
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr P throughout.  
What happened 
In October 2014 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,516 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. S contributed 
£1,051.60 to the deal, so the amount borrowed from Creation was £9,464.40. The total 
amount payable under the agreement was £14,311.63 and it was due to be paid back with 
120 monthly repayments of £110.50. There was a £135 arrangement fee; interest of 
£4,712.23; and a deposit contribution of £1,051.60 from Mr P.  
In September 2021 Mr P sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He requested Creation refund him around £4,000 so that he would not pay 
more over the loan period than his benefits. He said S told him the system would pay for 
itself within eight years and that he’d have a further 12 years benefit from feed in tariff (FIT) 
payments and 17 years of reduced electricity bills which would be pure profit. He said S told 
him the monthly payments and savings that he’d receive would cover his loan payments.   
Mr P said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in May 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr P decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in August 2022. In his complaint, he reiterated that S told him the system would 
be self-funding and that he became aware it wouldn’t be in May 2021.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr P the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. He didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so he thought S had 
misrepresented it. He thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr P and 
Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. He 
thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings and 
income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. He also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr P. Creation didn’t disagree the loan was 
still being repaid when our investigator sent his assessment. So, here, I think the relationship 
was ongoing at the time Mr P complained to Creation in 2021 and referred his complaint to 
the ombudsman service in 2022, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes 
of our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr P says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr P says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr P to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
Mr P has also supplied another document he was given by S relating to income and savings. 
This form sets out: 
 
 
 
 
 
Now 
 
20 years’ time 
Feed in Tariff  
£544.71 
£854.81 
Energy Exported 
£90.34  
£141.86 
Energy used  
£454.56 
£2,657.17 
Total annual savings £1,089.61 
£3,653.84 
Return on investment 11.51% 
38.61% 
The form set out the investment contract price was £10,516 and that the net contract was 
£9,464.40. It says the cumulative benefits were £45,058. It also set out the payback year 
was year 6 and is supported by a graph. The income and savings form doesn’t, however, 
include details of the interest Mr P would need to pay under the finance agreement. I can’t 
see it was signed, but it looks to have been produced around the time Mr P took out the fixed 
sum loan agreement. Based on the figures on the form I can see why Mr P was led to 
believe the system would be self-funding within the loan term. While the first-year annual 
savings indicated it wouldn’t quite have covered the loan cost for that year, the form 
indicated those savings would grow to over £3,500 – significantly more than the annual cost 
of the loan.  
I think it would have taken several years for Mr P to realise the system wouldn’t be self-
funding within the loan term based on what he was told. The form says it was a 6-year 
payback time – although as I’ve said, the form didn’t have the interest included. But even 
with interest being applied and Mr P being asked to pay back around £14,300 in total, given 
the estimated 20-year benefit was over £45,000, I can understand why he thought the 
system would be self-funding within the loan term. The first-year annual saving estimate was 
not far off the annual loan payments amount, and it would have been due to increase year 
on year. I think it should have been made clearer the payback time was not applicable if the 
system was paid for using a finance agreement. And I think S should have made it easier for 
Mr P to work out the system wouldn’t pay for itself within the loan term.  
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information supports Mr P’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr P said happened. Yet Mr P left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£110.50, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr P’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £1,300 per year. However, based on the 
estimated yield of the system, importantly I don’t think the system would provide enough 
benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these statements were not true. I 
think S’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr P’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to 
be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think S’s representative would have 
known that Mr P’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr P. 
Considering Mr P’s account about what he was told, the documentation and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr P a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
 
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr P was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr P went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr P’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr P 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
The s.75 complaint 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr P’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement. I note in the original claim letter Mr P mentioned that S told him 
the system would be self-funding within 8 years. But he also said S told him the benefits 
received would cover the loan payments. Our investigator recommended Creation 
recalculate the agreement based on the benefits received over the 10-year loan term. I can’t 
see Mr P has disputed that, so I am going to reach the same conclusion as our investigator 
because I think this seems broadly fair in the circumstances.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr P received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr P received (or will receive) by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr P will need to supply up to date details, where available, 
of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr P’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr P some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what 
I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr P £100. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr P’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr P has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
settlement* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr P 
• 
If required, use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will 
receive for the period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the 
original loan term – D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr P to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early. 
• 
Pay Mr P an additional £100 compensation 
*If Mr P is unable to supply bills or FIT statements, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd can use 
estimates to work out the benefits he ought to have received based on the estimated yield of 
the system.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3944737
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd won’t allow rejection of some furniture 
that was financed using a fixed sum loan agreement.
Mrs T is represented in this complaint, but for ease I’ll refer only to Mrs T. 
What happened
In April 2017, Mrs T acquired a sofa from a retailer I’ll call “D”. Mrs T paid a deposit of 
£202.30 and the remaining £1879.70 for the sofa was to be paid for using an interest free 
fixed sum loan agreement from Creation. Mrs T was required to make 46 monthly 
repayments of £40.86.
Mrs T reported some faults with the sofa and in September 2017 accepted a refund of £525 
from D as compensation for those issues. She was allowed to keep the sofa. Mrs T then 
reported further faults in late 2019. D initially agreed to repair the problems with the sofa but 
later agreed to allow Mrs T to exchange it. This was done by giving Mrs T store credit so that 
she could select what replacement she wanted. Mrs T selected two sofas and a coffee table 
which were delivered in January 2020. 
Mrs T raised a complaint with Creation in January 2021. She said that D had given her a 
voucher for £100 as compensation for issues when it delivered the replacement sofas, 
however, she could no longer use the voucher as D had gone into administration. She said 
that further to this there was no longer any valid warranty on the furniture and for this reason 
wanted to reject the furniture and get a refund. 
Creation said it wouldn’t accept a rejection of the furniture. It said the warranty was still valid 
and, if it wasn’t it would honour the original terms. It said any arrangement for compensation 
Mrs T had with D didn’t have anything to do with Creation as it wasn’t involved. 
Mrs T then referred her complaint to our service also in January 2021. In May 2022, she said 
that in addition to the issue of the voucher and warranty, the sofa and table also had faults 
and wanted us to consider that complaint too. Creation agreed for these issues to be 
included in the complaint being considered by our service. Creation also agreed to arrange 
an independent inspection of the sofas to determine the cause of the faults. The inspection 
was completed in October 2022. 
The independent inspection concluded that the issues with the sofa were down to expected 
wear and tear with a sofa that was three years old. It said there was no evidence of any 
manufacturing fault with the furniture. Mrs T said the report wasn’t accurate because it 
incorrectly stated the sofa was six years old. This meant the report could not be relied on. 
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Creation had 
agreed to honour the terms of the original warranty Mrs T was given, provided she could 
provide details of what it had covered. She thought this was fair. She said that she didn’t 
think it was reasonable to say that Creation had any responsibility for any issues that might 
have arisen with the coffee table. This was because the original credit agreement related to 
the purchase of a sofa and Mrs T only had the coffee table because she selected it when 
replacing the original sofa with store credit, it wasn’t done with Creation’s involvement. 
She did think Creation could still be held responsible for any quality issues with the 
replacement sofas. However, she wasn’t persuaded that there was evidence to demonstrate 
the replacement sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality. As she didn’t think there had been a 
breach of contract, she didn’t think Creation needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mrs T didn’t accept that outcome. In summary, she said that the independent report needed 
to be done again. This is because Creation had incorrectly told the inspector that the sofa 
was six years old and that is what they based their opinion on. It is therefore wrong to rely on 
the report when considering whether the replacement sofa was of satisfactory quality. She 
said that she first raised her concerns about the quality of the sofa after one year and the 
inspection should have been completed as if the sofa was one year old. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs T purchased the original sofa under a fixed sum loan agreement from Creation, I’ve 
considered whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably when dealing with her 
complaint about seeking rejection of the replacement furniture supplied by D. 
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) is that if 
Mrs T has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against the supplier of the 
goods (in this case D) that she purchased using finance, she can bring a like claim against 
the finance provider (in this case Creation), provided that certain conditions are met. For 
completeness, I’m satisfied those other conditions are met here. I’ve therefore thought about 
whether Mrs T does have a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
The original sofa financed by the credit agreement was faulty. It appears all parties accept 
this was due to a manufacturing defect. I’ve seen an independent report completed in 2019, 
which also confirms this. I’m therefore satisfied there was likely a breach of contract at this 
time for which Creation could be held jointly liable. 
However, I understand that particular breach of contract was remedied by D. It offered to 
replace the faulty sofa by giving Mrs T store credit towards replacement furniture of her 
choice. I understand Mrs T accepted this resolution at the time. It appears Mrs T then 
selected two sofas of a different specification to the first sofa she had as well as a coffee 
table. Mrs T tells us she had to spend around £300 more of her own money to be able to pay 
for the coffee table as the store credit didn’t cover the entire purchase cost. 
The coffee table was therefore in my view an additional purchase, unrelated to the original 
contract for the sofa. The original contract was for the supply and purchase of a sofa only 
and Creation appears to have had no involvement or even any awareness that D had agreed 
to a complete replacement of the sofa in 2019. All the evidence I’ve seen points to Creation 
believing a repair was going to be carried out. 
I don’t therefore think it would be fair and reasonable to hold Creation liable for any potential 
issues with the coffee table when the purchase of a table was never in consideration during 
the original contract. Further, Creation don’t appear to have been consulted in relation to it 
being included at a later date as part of a remedy and Mrs T appears to have paid a 
significant portion of the cost using her own money, with the rest being funded by store 
credit.
It's not entirely clear whether Creation could be held jointly responsible for any quality issues 
with the replacement sofas either. This is because the details for how the store credit was 
agreed and what was negotiated in store are very limited. Nobody has been able to confirm 
exactly how much store credit Mrs T even received. While Creation doesn’t appear to have 
been involved in that process, I’ve considered that if they had been informed it’s likely they 
would have agreed to the replacement as it was clear the previous sofa was faulty due to a 
manufacturing defect. Therefore, I think it’s fair and reasonable to say that Creation are likely 
to be liable for any quality issues with the replacement sofas too. 
Mrs T says the independent report on the sofa is unreliable as it says the sofas were six 
years old. I agree that the furniture age on the report is clearly wrong. However, I don’t think 
this makes the view of the inspector invalid or unreliable. I say this because the comments in 
the report from the inspector clearly demonstrate he understood how old the sofas were. He 
says in the report that the current issues are ‘consistent with age and usage’ and that this 
relates to ‘3 years of use.’ At the time of the report, the replacement sofas had been in 
Mrs T's possession almost three years. So, it seems to me the inspector was appropriately 
assessing the quality of the sofas in relation to their true age, not the age stated at the top of 
the report. 
Mrs T also says that the quality of the sofa should be assessed as a one year old sofa. 
However, I can’t agree that would be reasonable. At the time it was inspected it was almost 
three years old, so it is fair and reasonable that it is on this basis its quality is assessed. The 
report concluded that the issues with the sofas were down to expected wear and tear given 
its age and usage. I therefore don’t have any persuasive evidence to indicate the 
replacement sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality when they were supplied. For this reason, 
I don’t think Creation have any responsibility to put things right. 
While Mrs T says she first raised the faults within a year, I’ve not seen anything to 
demonstrate that Mrs T raised these concerns that early. She first mentioned an issue with 
the sofas to our service in June 2021, many months after first referring her complaint about 
the warranty and £100 compensation. She then confirmed in May 2022 that this was a 
complaint she wanted to make to Creation. Given all of this, I don’t think it would be 
reasonable for me to conclude that Creation should have instructed an inspection of the 
sofas at an earlier point in time. 
Mrs T has also complained about the warranty given to her by D. Creation has already 
agreed to honour the terms of the original warranty provided Mrs T can give details of what 
was covered. However, Mrs T has been unable to do this. I don’t think Creation has treated 
her unfairly in relation to this. Given D are in administration and it was them that offered 
Mrs T the warranty, I don’t find it unreasonable that Creation can’t obtain a copy of it. 
Lastly, regarding the £100 compensation D offered to Mrs T. I don’t think this is something 
which Creation can be held jointly responsible for under section 75. I understand this was 
given to Mrs T as compensation for some issues with the delivery of the replacement 
furniture. However, as it didn’t relate to any breach of contract or misrepresentation about 
the goods financed under the fixed sum loan agreement, it isn’t something it would be fair to 
say Creation have some liability for what went wrong, especially when Creation weren’t 
involved in the negotiation for replacement products. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3944985
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs A has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mrs A has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs A throughout.  
 
Mrs A told us that a fault has developed with the installation which has not been resolved. 
Our investigator could not see whether issues with the quality of the installation and losses 
flowing from this had been raised with Creation and concluded this was a new matter which 
would first need to be put to Creation for consideration before this service can consider it. I 
agree. This decision will not consider that aspect of the complaint Mrs A has brought to this 
Service.  
 
Whilst the complaint has been set up as a joint complaint, as the invoice and loan 
agreement were in Mrs A’s name, I have referred to her mostly in the decision. 
 
What happened 
On 31 July 2015, Mrs A agreed to a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation for a solar panel 
system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M”. The loan amount was for £9,975 and 
the total amount payable under the agreement was £15,474 and it was due to be paid 
back with 120 monthly repayments of £128.95. 
 
Mrs A complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs A on 4 March 2022. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 16 June 2022. Creation considered Mrs A had brought her 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on 
dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation 
Act (‘LA’). Mrs A brought her complaint to this service on 22 August 2022 as she was 
unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs A asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs A’s complaint, she ultimately thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs A and 
Creation.  
 
 
On 18 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs A keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs A had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
As Creation did not respond to that assessment, the case was progressed to the next 
stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs A’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs A’s s.75 
claim on 16 June 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs A brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 
August 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs A. Here the relationship 
came to an end when the loan was repaid. Mrs A told us that the loan was still being 
repaid when the complaint came to us in August 2022. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
 
 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
A.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs A has said that she was cold called by M who told her that the cost of the system 
would be fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity she would receive and the 
savings she would make. Mrs A told us she wasn’t thinking about solar panels until she 
was approached by M.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs A to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs A on 31 July 2015, sets out Mrs A’s responsibilities for 
repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mrs A’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs A to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs A would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision. 
 
As mentioned above, Mrs A told us that M told her the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off the cost of the loan. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs A’s 
testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I 
have noted that Creation has not responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs A said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mrs A left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £128.95, payable for 10 years. Given her lack of prior interest and 
the financial burden she took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mrs A’s account of what she was told by M to be credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had she not been given the reassurances Mrs A said she received 
from M.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,547.40 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
A’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs A’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments. The evidence suggests the solar system was not 
self-funding. 
 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs A’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs A’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs A. 
 
 
 
Considering Mrs A’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs A a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs A’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs A was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs A went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs A’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs A in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs A and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Creation received Mr A’s s.75 complaint on 16 June 2022. Given my findings above I’m 
not proposing to provide a detailed analysis of his s.75 complaint and also his other 
s.140A complaint points. This doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances, and I’m mindful   the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair outcome 
quickly with minimal formality. 
 
Putting things right 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs A and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs A a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs A’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Creation told us in other cases that it considers our approach to redress should be in 
accordance with the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited 
[2021] EWHC 2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’). 
 
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a 
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for 
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it 
 
 
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs A’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mrs A has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs 
A. 
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs A received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs A received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs A may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available.  
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs A 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs A made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs A’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and 
assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 10 year loan 
period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs A should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs A.  
• 
Give Mrs A the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments. 
• 
Pay Mrs A an additional £100. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
  
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr and Mrs A’s complaint. I intend to require 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed 
above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
 
 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3946388
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (who I’ll call “Creation”).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I think this car wasn’t of satisfactory quality and I’m 
asking them to allow Mr R to reject it. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was already 
about six years old and had completed a little over 91,000 miles. So, I’d expect some wear 
and tear, but I don’t think a reasonable person would expect to experience the problems Mr 
R has experienced, even on a car of this age and mileage. 
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether a car has been of 
satisfactory quality we should think about whether it’s been durable. The mechanic who 
looked at the car in January 2022 corroborated the findings in the Mercedes report of the 
previous month. He said there was a fault with the Diesel Particulate Filter, and it needed 
replacing. Whilst I understand that these can become clogged over time and may need 
regenerating, I don’t think a reasonable person would consider a car to have been durable if 
one needed replacing after only five months of driving. So, I think Creation should have 
allowed Mr R to reject the car.
Putting things right
Creation will need to collect the car at no cost to Mr R and they will need to end the finance 
agreement.
They should refund any deposit Mr R has paid and add interest to that refund as Mr R has 
been deprived of the money.
Mr R has understandably not been able to use the car since March 2022 because of the 
problems he’s had with it. Creation will therefore need to refund any payments he’s made 
towards his agreement from March 2022 onwards. They’ll need to add interest to that refund 
too.
Mr R has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of these issues. He’s had to 
take his car back for repairs and to commission a report diagnosing the problem. He’s also 
had to escalate his complaint to this Service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In the circumstances I think Creation should pay him £350 in compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I’ve given above and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr R.

Refund any deposit Mr R has paid.

Refund any finance instalments Mr R has paid from, and including, March 2022.

Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment
until the date of settlement.

Pay Mr R £350 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience that’s been 
caused.

Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr R’s credit file in 
relation to this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3953038
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr G has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In November 2013, Mr G bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“P” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of 
credit is £9,585, the monthly payments are £125.65, the total charge for credit is £5,358, and 
Mr G paid £1,000 deposit. The total amount payable is £16,078. 
 
Mr G repaid his loan on 25 March 2020, so in total he paid around £14,238 towards the 
system. 
 
Mr G sent a letter of claim to Creation on 6 January 2022, explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. In summary he said: 
 
• 
P told him that the system would pay for itself within 8 years 
• 
P told him that the monthly payments and savings he would receive would cover his 
monthly finance payments 
• 
The above has not happened, and if he had known this, he would not have entered 
into the agreement with P 
Mr G said he had a like claim against Creation for misrepresentation under s.75. He said that 
the misrepresentations made by P were on behalf of Creation under section 56 (“s.56”) of 
the CCA. And that because of the misrepresentations the relationship between Creation and 
himself was unfair under s.140A . 
  
Creation responded to the complaint on 10 January 2022 in its final response, it considered 
Mr G had brought his complaint outside of the time limits in the rules we follow.   
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service on 26 January 
2022. 
 
An investigator considered Mr G’s complaint, she thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr G and 
Creation.  
She recommended that Mr G keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr G 
had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively 
self-funding over the term of the agreement. And she said Creation should pay Mr G £100 
for the impact of not looking into his s.140A claim or complaint.   
 
 
 
I can’t see we received a response from Mr G or Creation, so, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
We’ve recently been in contact with Mr G who sent further documentation from the point of 
sale, and just after. We asked if Mr G agreed with the investigator’s opinion, he didn’t give a 
definitive answer. In addition to his original testimony Mr G also told us he had thought about 
panels before P approached him, as he was a bit ‘green energy’ and had heard panels 
reduced electricity bills. He also said he wasn’t sure if P had said the panels would pay for 
themselves in 8 years or over the term of the loan. 
 
The investigator has recently shared the further documentation from the point of sale with 
Creation. And has also drawn Creation’s attention to the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (‘RECC’) proceedings against P in 2014/15, P’s website from around the point of sale 
and P’s liquidation report produced in 2016. She specifically highlighted the part of the report 
where it states mis-selling issues by P were brought up by Creation which led to it 
terminating its contract with P. She asked for Creation to provide further comments; 
however, I can’t see that Creation have responded.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
  
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr G’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr G’s s.75 claim 
on 10 January 2022. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr G brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 26 January 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr G. Mr G repaid his loan on 25 March 
2020, that is when his alleged unfair relationship with Creation ended. Mr G referred his 
complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 26 January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
 
 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
S.56 of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent 
negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr G.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr G has said he was told by P’s representative that the monthly payments and savings he 
would receive would cover his monthly finance payments.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr G to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mr G’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments.  
 
I’ve considered the contract; the likely financial benefits of the system aren’t included on this 
document. There is a quotation form from P, under the section ‘Our Prediction of the 
Performance of the Proposed System’ it directs Mr G to a ‘Predicted System Performance’, 
however Mr G has said he didn’t receive this document. 
 
Given what I’ve seen there was no way for Mr G to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised. Mr G has said the financial benefits were 
discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not including information about them.  
 
Mr G has provided a document signed by himself and P’s representative at the point of sale, 
where he’s agreed that he fully understood the year-on-year planner that was explained by 
P’s representative. Mr G has said no further documents were provided by P, so I can’t see 
he was given a copy of the planner, or what the planner contained. But I’ve looked at a copy 
of P’s website from late 2013, on the main page it states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
 
 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. And I also think given this it’s likely the 
year-on-year planner explained by P’s representative, involved a discussion about the 
benefits the system would make.   
 
Importantly here I think the website also supports Mr G’s testimony that P’s representative 
told him, the monthly payments, and savings he would receive would cover his monthly 
finance payments.  
 
So given all of the above, I find what Mr G’s said believable, I think P’s website and the 
signed document regarding the year-on-year planner, from the point of sale, supports his 
testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a 
key reason to purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from 
the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mr G would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr G’s testimony that he was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by RECC against P. My understanding is that 
the RECC oversees the renewable energy consumer Code and makes sure that its 
members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
 
So, the Panel decided P was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr G has 
complained about, at a similar time he was sold his system. 
 
 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision -  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [P’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Creation have also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 
available on companies house. The report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it 
had serious concerns about the way P was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mr G’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr G’s said happened, or comments on 
the above series of events. Yet Mr G left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing 
loan, with a monthly repayment of £125.65, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden 
he took on I find Mr G’s account of what he was told by P credible and persuasive. 
Specifically, that the monthly payments and savings he would receive would cover his 
monthly finance payments, and if he’d not been told this he wouldn’t have entered into the 
agreement. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,507.80 per year. Mr G’s system looks like it’s performing less 
than the estimate on his MCS certificate. However, importantly here the system has not and 
would not produce enough benefits based on the actual and estimated output, to be self-
funding within the term of the loan, even taking into account Mr G ended up paying in total 
around £14,238 towards the system.  
 
So, these statements were not true. I think P’s representative must reasonably have been 
aware that Mr G’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are 
elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, 
I think P’s representative would have known that Mr G’s system would not produce enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr G. 
 
Considering Mr G’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, P’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the fact it hasn’t 
commented on or disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr G a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr G was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr G went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
 
 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr G’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr G in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr G 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr G’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.  
 
Fair compensation 
  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr G and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. The investigator 
recommended Creation recalculate the agreement as if the system was self-funding within 
the loan term rather than over the 8 years Mr G said he was promised. Mr G hasn’t 
disagreed with this recommendation, and has recently told us, he can’t remember whether P 
said over 8 years or the term of the loan. Mr G has said P told him that the monthly 
payments and savings he would receive would cover his monthly finance payments, which 
were payable over 10 years, and I think this is further supported by P’s website and the 
findings by RECC. So, on balance, taking into account everything I’ve seen I think the fairest 
way to resolve things is to use the 10-year estimate that our investigator decided.  
 
So, Creation should repay Mr G a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably 
have expected as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr G’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan 
agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr G received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr G received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr G 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s refusal to look at Mr G’s s.140A complaint, caused him 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, I agree with the investigator, and in 
addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr G £100. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr G’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit, monthly repayments, and final lump sum) 
Mr G has made towards the solar panel system up until the early date of settlement – 
A 
• 
Use Mr G’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
original loan term* – B 
• 
Calculate the difference, between what Mr G actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement of the complaint** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr G  
• 
Pay Mr G £100 compensation 
*Where Mr G has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2024. 
  
 
Helen Boulton-Agg 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3953140
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) responded 
to claims she’d made under section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘the CCA’), 
and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout. 
What happened
In September 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£5,750 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “G”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £8,919.86 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £74.33. I understand the system was installed in September 2013. 
In May 2021 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system was 
mis-sold. She said G told her she’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system 
generated through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments. She said G told her the 
system would increase her property value; her bills would go down; and that it could be 
financed. She said the main reason for purchasing the system was to reduce her monthly 
overheads and have an additional income from the surplus energy the system was 
supposed to generate. She said G sold the system as being self-funding and was pressured 
into taking out the agreement. She also said Creation failed to carry out a suitable and 
sufficient creditworthiness assessment and she wasn’t given an adequate explanation of 
how the credit agreement worked. 
Mrs S said the system was misrepresented and believed G’s statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Creation responded in its final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought G had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought G 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mrs S 
and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mrs S pays no more than that, and she keeps 
the system. 
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs S’s s.75 claim 
in October 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs S 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in February 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here, the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in September 2013. Mrs S brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
in May 2021. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with it. Given 
this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mrs S says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.  
I’m conscious the fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the 
interest charged; the total amount payment; the term; and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. I think this was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what 
was required to be repaid towards the agreement.
We’ve not been supplied a contract or other point of sale documentation that set out the 
estimated benefits of the system. So I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mrs S to 
compare her total costs against the financial benefits she was allegedly being promised. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mrs S had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before G contacted her. Mrs S has said she only agreed to the purchase because G told her 
the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mrs S would have agreed to the installation if her monthly outgoings 
would increase significantly. 
In all the circumstances, I’ve not seen G adequately informed Mrs S the system wouldn’t be 
self-funding. Moreover, we’ve seen that G’s website from the time mentioned things like free 
electricity during the day; tax free income from government and electricity provider; earn up 
to £1,000 per year; 8-12% tax free return per year; 20-year guaranteed income; solar panels 
that pay for themselves; amongst other things – which I think would support Mrs S’s 
allegation G told her the system would be self-funding. On balance, I think Mrs S’s testimony 
is plausible and convincing. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £900 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s a problem with the 
system. Based on the generation readings I’ve seen it looks like it’s slightly overperformed. 
But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mrs S achieved the benefits required to make the 
system self-funding within the term of the agreement. I therefore find the representations that 
were likely made weren’t true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it 
clear the system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement during the 10-year term. 
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, the information on G’s website, and 
the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely G gave Mrs S a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her system benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
that the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement is now paid off, I think there’s only one viable 
option for my directions. 
I note Mrs S has raised further complaint points but, given my directions, I don’t find I need 
to deal with those points separately. Creation should also be aware that whether my 
determination constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of the 
ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs S has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mrs S

Pay Mrs S £100 compensation
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3957645
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 3 December 2013, Mrs B agreed to a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation for a solar 
panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M”. The loan amount was for £8,250 
and the total amount payable under the agreement was £13,006.80 and it was due to be 
paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £108.39.
Mrs B complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss.
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs B on 12 March 2020. Creation issued 
a final response letter dated 20 March 2020. Creation considered Mrs B had brought her 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on 
dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation 
Act (‘LA’). Mrs B brought her complaint to this service on 28 May 2020 as she was 
unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs B asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs B’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs B and 
Creation. 
On 20 December 2022, the investigator recommended that Mrs B keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs B had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs B accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 9 January 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel. On 4 May 2023 Creation told us it disagreed with our 
assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision. 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 June 2024, a section of which is included below, and 
forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision, I set out the reasons why it was my 
intention to uphold Mrs B’s complaint. I set out an extract below:
“I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My provisional findings
Jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs B’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs B’s s.75 
claim on 20 March 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs B brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 28 May 
2020. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes 
of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs B. Here the relationship 
came to an end when the loan was repaid. Mrs B told us that the loan was repaid on 6 
August 2015. And Mrs B referred her complaint to the ombudsman service on 28 May 
2020, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
B. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs B has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity she would receive and the savings 
she would make. Mrs B has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t 
seen any evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs B to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs B on 3 December 2013 and by Creation on 9 
December 2013, sets out Mrs B’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs B’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs B to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs B would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Mrs B has provided a copy of a document called “Your system explained”. The document 
is undated but Mrs B told us that it was completed by the representative of M before she 
signed for the loan. The document explains that ‘Year 1 benefit from SOLAR PV 
£1300.08. Benefit over 25 years from SOLAR PV £39,020.40’. The document also says 
the ‘SYSTEM COST MONTHLY IS £108.39’ but goes on to say that ‘YOUR 
CONTRIBUTION TO THIS IS £0’. 
This document does not compare the benefits with the costs and seems to suggest that 
there are no costs because of the benefits – I refer to ‘YOUR CONTRIBUTION TO THIS 
IS £0’. In any event, I cannot see how this document could be thought to demonstrate in a 
way that is sufficiently clear to Mrs B that the loan would not be self funding. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs B said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs B left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £108, payable for ten years. And I have considered that Mrs B had 
passed her state retirement age at that time. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on, I find Mrs B’s account of what she was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,300 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs B’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs B’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. The evidence suggests the solar system was not self-funding.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs B’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs B’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs B.
Considering Mrs B’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs B a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs B’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs B was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs B went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs B’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs B in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs B and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs B and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs B a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs B’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Creation told us that it considers our approach to redress should be in accordance with 
the Court’s decision in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Limited [2021] EWHC 
2167 (Comm) (‘Hodgson’).
I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade me I should adopt a
different approach to fair compensation. Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for
misrepresentation, whereas I’m considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it
likely the supplier made a contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the 
solar panel system. And even if I am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were 
such that fair compensation should be based on Mrs B’s expectation of what he would 
receive. I consider Mrs B has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with 
Creation, to the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the 
solar panels. On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mrs 
B.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award 
or direction (or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs B received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs B received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs B may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Mrs B told us that she settled the loan agreement on 6 August 2015.
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs B made towards the loan up until she repaid
it – A

Use Mrs B’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs B should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mrs B paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mrs B paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and
meter readings Creation should pay Mrs B C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs B
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 8 July 2024. At the time of writing, neither Mrs B nor Creation have 
acknowledged receiving the provisional decision, made any further submissions or asked for 
an extension to do so. I consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make a further 
submission had they wished to do so. So, I’m proceeding to my final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that there’s no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as I’ve already set out my full reasons for 
upholding Mrs B’s complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
Putting things right
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as
detailed above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mrs B’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3963201
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation provided an 
incorrect early settlement figure for his loan account and didn’t provide an annual loan 
statement in 2022.
What happened
Mr F opened a loan account with Creation in early 2020. In August 2022 Mr F requested a 
settlement figure for the loan and paid the amount Creation quoted. Mr F complained that 
the settlement figure was calculated incorrectly and, that as Creation hadn’t provided a loan 
statement in 2022, some of the interest he paid should be refunded. 
Creation said the loan interest had been added to the loan at the start and that the 
settlement figure had been calculated correctly. Creation said the 2022 annual statement 
had been emailed to the email address it held for Mr F. Creation apologised for the delay in 
dealing with Mr F’s complaint.
Mr F brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought there was no evidence to show 
Creation had incorrectly calculated the settlement figure and that Creation had emailed a 
statement to Mr F by email in 2022. Mr F asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F has very strong views that the settlement figure Creation provided for his 
loan was incorrect and that Creation didn’t fulfil its obligation to provide an annual statement 
for his loan account. However, for very much the same reasons as the Investigators I’ve 
decided that Creation acted fairly and reasonably in this case. I will now explain why.
It may be useful if I first explain how early settlement of a loan works. When a loan is taken 
out, the total amount the borrower has to pay back is the amount they’ve borrowed plus the 
cost of borrowing that amount. This is usually the interest and any fees or charges. In this 
case, the interest was added to the amount borrowed at the start of the loan – it wasn’t 
charged daily. Commonly, loans are based on an ‘amortisation’ schedule. What that means 
is that each instalment is made up of some of the amount originally borrowed (also known as 
“capital” or “principal”) and some of the interest and charges. 
The loan repayments may be for a fixed amount. But in the earlier stages of the loan term, 
more of each monthly payment goes on paying the interest – because it’s calculated based 
on the outstanding balance. And that’s going to be higher at the start. As the borrower 
progresses through the loan term, and the remaining balance reduces, more of their 
payment goes on paying off the principal element of that balance. As instalments are paid, 
the capital balance reduces, and so does the amount of interest.
If the borrower repays all or some of a loan early, they may not have to pay the interest they 
would need to pay in the future if the loan ran for its full term. This saving is called a rebate. 
If a rebate is due, the lender will apply a mathematical formula which is set out in The 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 to work out what the rebate should 
be. The regulations are there to protect borrowers to make sure they don’t pay more than 
they need to, especially if they repay a loan very early in its term. The formula works out how 
much of the amount borrowed is left to be repaid and how much of the future interest and 
charges will no longer need to be paid if the loan is settled by the settlement date.
In Mr F’s case, he’s provided evidence of settlement figures he obtained using on-line 
calculation sites. I’ve looked at these, but I note that Mr F hasn’t used the correct number of 
payments he made on his loan at the date of the calculations. Mr F, by agreement with 
Creation, took a payment holiday in 2021. This meant that when he applied for an early 
settlement figure Creation calculated the rebate using the payments Mr F had made to his 
loan account, and not the number of months it had been open. I’m satisfied that Creation 
didn’t do anything wrong in this regard.
Mr F has provided two separate spreadsheets showing how he feels the settlement figure 
should have been calculated. However, both of these calculations show interest being 
applied monthly, which wasn’t how Mr F’s loan worked. In Mr F’s case the interest was 
added at the start, and this is clearly explained in the credit agreement. I think it’s likely this 
is why Mr F has calculated an early settlement figure that is different to the one provided by 
Creation. Mr F has questioned whether Creation can add interest to the loan at the start and 
I’m satisfied it can as long as it offers a rebate on early settlement – which Creation did in 
this case when it rebated £1275.62 of interest.
Mr F says he received an annual statement for his loan account in 2021, but not in 2022. I’ve 
seen evidence that persuades me Creation sent the 2022 statement to an email address it 
held for Mr F. This is still Mr F’s email address and I consider it’s more likely than not Mr F 
would have received this statement, albeit may have gone to a ‘junk’ folder. Mr F goes on to 
say that the annual statement he received didn’t include the statutory information Creation is 
required to provide under the regulations of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, specifically 
section 77B. Mr F believes the annual statement must contain a breakdown of the instalment 
showing how much of it is made up of capital repayment, interest, and other charges. I’ve 
considered Mr F’s comments, but section 77B specifically relates to what a business must 
include if a consumer requests a statement and not what must be included in an annual 
statement of account. So, in this regard, I’m satisfied Creation didn’t do anything wrong as 
there’s no evidence that Mr F requested a statement of account in 2022.
I’ve noted that Creation apologised to Mr F that it delayed in dealing with his complaint when 
it was received. As complaint handling is not a regulated activity, I cannot consider this part 
of Mr F’s complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr F’s complaint about Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3963204
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs O has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 7 November 2014, Mrs O bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The credit agreement was 
signed on 14 November 2014. The loan amount was for £10,750 and the total amount 
payable under the agreement was £16,675.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £138.96.
Mrs O complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan 
repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs O on 11 August 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 20 October 2021. Creation considered Mrs O had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs O brought her complaint to this service on 25 November 2021 as 
she was unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs O asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs O’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs O and 
Creation. 
On 13 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs O keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs O had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs O accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation have now had over a year to respond to the 
investigator’s findings had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs O’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs O’s s.75 
claim on 20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs O brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 25 
November 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs O. The loan was still 
running when the complaint was brought to this service and is still running. So, the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 14 November 2014. Mrs O brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 11 August 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an 
agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not 
accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
O. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs O has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs O has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs O to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs O on 14 November 2014, sets out Mrs O’s 
responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the 
loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m 
satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs O’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs O to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs O would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Mrs O has also supplied a copy of the System Performance Estimate document. This sets 
out that the total estimated benefit from the panels in year one is roughly £1000. But Mrs 
O’s monthly repayments towards the agreement were £138.96 and she would be paying 
over £1,650 a year for the loan. So, this document does not support the idea that the 
scheme would be self-funding. 
But the document does not explicitly explain that the figures suggest the scheme would 
not be self-funding. The consumer would have had to closely read the document and work 
that out for themselves. And the consumer would have had do that and make further 
enquiries to see if the first year figures this document provides an estimate for would be 
repeated in subsequent years. 
I have not been given any evidence that shows me how this document was intended to be 
used or how P would have put its contents to Mrs O. And I have noted that Mrs O told us 
that M did not take Mrs O through the document in any detail. Mrs O has alleged the sale 
was conducted in a pressured way and that the representative of M wanted the forms 
signed and posted, so that Mrs O wouldn’t miss out on the deal. So, it’s not clear to me 
that Mrs O did closely read the document or was supported in so doing during the 
meeting. 
However, even had Mrs O read the document I also believe that the significance of the 
figures has not been sufficiently highlighted in the document. And in choosing to provide 
important information in the way they did, I think M ran the risk that a consumer might 
miss this important detail. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs O said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs O left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £138.96, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and 
the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs O’s account of what she was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs O’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,667.52 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
O’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs O’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs O’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs O’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs O.
Considering Mrs O’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs O a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs O’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs O was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs O went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs O’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs O in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs O and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs O and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs O a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs O’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs O received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs O received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs O may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs O’s monthly repayments would
reduce, meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs O made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs O’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs O should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs O. 

Give Mrs O the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan 
amount, recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a 
refund of the overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs O
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs O’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3963247
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr Q has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr Q has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr Q throughout. 
What happened
In April 2015 Mr Q entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,999 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £17,062.52 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £142.18. 
The supply contract was for the installation of 16 solar panels, and I understand the system 
was installed in May 2015. 
In October 2021 Mr Q sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said E told him he’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (“FIT”) payments, and that he’d receive a 
guaranteed income for 20 years. He said E told him he’d earn up to 10% per year tax free 
and that the value of the property would increase. He said E told him his energy bills would 
go down and the system was maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy. 
Mr Q said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation responded in its final response letter in December 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr Q decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought E had likely told Mr Q the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought E 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr Q 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also thought Creation should pay £100 compensation for the impact of not 
considering the claim. 
Mr Q agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr Q. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the Financial Ombudsman in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr Q. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr Q says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr Q says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.  
Mr Q says E told him he’d make savings through bills, and he’d receive payments for 
electricity he didn’t use along with government subsidies for installing the solar panels. He 
says E told him he’d be in a positive position i.e., the amount he paid for the system would 
be less than the savings made. He says there wasn’t much discussion about the agreement 
other than it would be available at a decent rate. 
The fixed sum loan agreement signed on 24 April 2015 sets out the amount being borrowed; 
the interest charged; the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. I think this was set out clearly enough for Mr Q to be able to understand what 
was required to be repaid towards the agreement.
Having looked at other documentation from around the time of sale I can see Mr Q signed a 
solar PV contract on 9 April 2015. This set out the type of property, the type of panels and 
that the order price was £10,999. He was also given a calculations document to sign on the 
same day that set out the total estimate of 3,087kWh per year. And Mr Q was given another 
document to sign that set out a five-year guarantee along with an estimate for the system 
including benefits. This form set out there was a potential year one benefit of £719 through 
the FIT, export tariff and electricity savings. And it said the estimated 20-year benefit was 
£14,380. The form also had a section in relation to further heating savings and said the total 
estimated year one benefit was £528 and the potential 20-year benefit was £10,560. 
I’m conscious Mr Q signed the documents including estimates more than two weeks before 
he signed the fixed sum loan agreement. The contract only set out the price of the system, 
and not the total amount payable or monthly repayments. I don’t think there was an easy 
way for Mr Q to have been able to compare the total cost against the benefits he was 
allegedly being promised. Mr Q has indicated he signed the fixed sum loan agreement 
based on what he was told by E – i.e., that the system would be self-funding. From looking 
at the estimate form Mr Q received, I think it would be easy to have thought his year one 
benefit would be the sum of the two estimates – over £1,200. And that over 20 years the 
benefit was estimated to be around £25,000. So I can understand why when he came to sign 
the agreement for a system costing around £11,000 with monthly repayments of around 
£140 he could have been reasonably led to believe the system would pay for itself within the 
loan term. I don’t think he was given information in an accessible and easy to understand 
format to have enabled him to clearly see the system wouldn’t be self-funding. The sales 
documentation doesn’t show a comparison. And it doesn’t show the true cost of the system 
because it doesn’t include any information about the interest charged. I note the contract 
mentions heat keepers. I think these are used to reflect heat from radiators. It’s not clear if 
these were paid for under the agreement and Creation hasn’t offered any submissions on 
this point. Given I understand you can purchase 30 packs of heat keepers for less than £100 
I’m satisfied the vast majority, if not all, of the contract price was for the solar panels.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,700 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest the system isn’t 
working as expected. But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mr Q achieved the benefits 
required to make the system self-funding within the term of the agreement. I therefore find 
the representations that were likely made weren’t true. Whilst there are elements of the 
calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think the 
salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement. 
Considering Mr Q’s account about what he was told; the documentation not being very clear; 
the time in between the initial sales meeting and the date he signed the agreement; and the 
fact Creation hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely E gave Mr Q a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr Q’s account of what he was told by E 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he 
would have seen this purchase appealing had E not given him the reassurances he’s said he 
received. 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr Q was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr Q went into the transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr Q’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr Q in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr Q 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr Q and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr Q a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of E’s assurances. That is, that Mr Q’s loan repayments should amount to no more that the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr Q received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr Q received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr Q will need to supply up to date details of all available FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I note Mr Q has raised other points that he considers supports his allegations there was an 
unfair relationship, but I don’t think I need to consider those further points to reach a fair 
outcome given what I’ve already decided is fair compensation for the reasons given above. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr Q some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr Q’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr Q has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr Q’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr Q should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr Q

Use Mr Q’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan.

Pay Mr Q an additional £100 compensation
*Where Mr Q has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr Q how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr Q a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3963304
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr R has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr R throughout. 
What happened
In October 2014 Mr R entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,500 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “M”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,946 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly 
repayments of £124.55. 
In July 2021 Mr R sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said M told him he’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding. He said M told him his property value would increase and his energy bills would go 
down. 
Mr R said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr R decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought M had likely told Mr R the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought M 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr R 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim. 
Mr R agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr R. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr R. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr R says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr R says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr R to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement.
Mr R has also supplied some further information from around the point of sale. We’ve been 
supplied an MCS certificate setting out the estimated annual generation in kWh. There’s an 
invoice with the cash price of the system. Also, we’ve been supplied certificates; insurance 
backed guarantees; certification documents; deposit and stage payments protection; as well 
as warranty information. But none of the documents we’ve been supplied show any 
estimates of the savings Mr R would make, or the interest charged on the agreement. I’ve 
not seen there was an easy way for Mr R to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr R had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before M contacted him. Mr R has said he only agreed to the purchase because M told him 
the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr R would have agreed to the installation if his monthly outgoings 
would increase significantly. 
Given the invoice and other documents I’ve seen don’t contain information about the 
benefits, Mr R would have looked to M’s representative to help him understand how much 
the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system.
Mr R said the financial benefits were discussed despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. Mr R said M showed him charts that demonstrated in the 
short term the system would more than pay for itself and that this would increase year by 
year. I’ve also looked at a copy of M’s website from mid-2014 which emphasises the system 
would bring down the cost of electricity being supplied and that it would bring long-term 
financial benefits by earning the customer money for years to come. It talks of a return of 
investment of up to 15% for 20 years under government incentives to increase levels of 
green energy. Given the website highlights the returns on investment it’s likely the financial 
benefits were discussed, and what Mr R says he was told is plausible. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,500 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr R’s system 
achieved anywhere near the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the 
term of the agreement, even though I think it’s slightly overperformed compared to the 
estimate on the MCS certificate. I therefore find the representations that were likely made 
weren’t true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system 
wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan 
agreement during its term.
I think M’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr R’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think M’s 
representative would have known that Mr R’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him.
Considering Mr R’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the website; and 
that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr R a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr R’s account of what he was told by M credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had M not given the reassurances he said he received. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr R expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr R went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr R’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr R in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mr R and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr R and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr R a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr R’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr R received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr R received (and will receive) by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr R will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr R some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mr R also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr R’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr R’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr R has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr R’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr R should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr R

Use Mr R’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan 
term*– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan.

Pay Mr R an additional £100 compensation
*Where Mr R has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3963678
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout.  
What happened 
In August 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,400 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £16,341.60 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £136.18. There was a £135 arrangement fee and an interest charge 
of £5,806.60. 
Creation has supplied another loan agreement from October 2013 with the same figures, but 
as the system was installed in August 2013, I think the August fixed sum loan seems to be 
correct.  
In January 2022 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system 
was mis-sold. She said P told her she’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that she’d have reduced energy 
bills. She said P sold the system as being self-funding within the loan term. She said P 
promised her guaranteed income for 20 years; 10% earnings tax free annually; her property 
value would increase; and that the system would be maintenance free with at least a 25 year 
life expectancy. She said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and 
several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself 
and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in February 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding within the loan term. She didn’t think the system was, and so she 
thought P had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship 
between Mrs S and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss through entering into 
the agreement. She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and 
assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that she pays no more than 
that, and she keeps the system. She also thought Creation should pay £100 for the impact 
on Mrs S of not looking into the s.140A claim. 
 
 
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mrs S complained, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of 
our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mrs S says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the 
system. 
 
 
I’ve looked at the other documents Mrs S has been able to supply. The brochure she’s 
supplied sets out that the payback period being a concern for people investing in renewable 
energy had been reduced. And that customers could make a ‘real profit’ through buying a 
system. I therefore think if the brochure mentions the financial benefits of the system and the 
return on investment it’s likely that would have been a central part of the discussion between 
P and Mrs S.  
Mrs S has also supplied an order form, invoice, and handover information. But these forms 
don’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system. Mrs S has supplied a contract with 
the SAP calculation on, but this doesn’t set out the estimated benefits either.  
We asked Mrs S more about the purchase and she explained she’d heard about solar 
panels and thought it would be a good way to cut the bills down but wasn’t actively looking. 
She said she agreed to buy the system because P told her it would pay for itself. She said 
her partner was unwell with a long-lasting heath condition and so they were looking for ways 
to save money. She said P sold the system as though it would cover the loan payments and 
that she’d have some money left over. She said P told her once the agreement was paid off, 
she’d have extra money coming in. I think Mrs S would have looked to P’s representative to 
help her understand how much the system would cost and what benefit she’d receive. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs S said happened. Mrs S was looking 
for ways to save money. Yet she left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of £136.18, payable for 10 years. Given her aims and the financial 
burden she took on I find Mrs S’s account of what she was told by P, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have 
seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she 
received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of over £1,600 per year. However, importantly here I don’t think the system 
would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan.  
I think the statements that were likely made by P were not true. I think P’s representative 
must reasonably have been aware that Mrs S’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount 
of sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have known that Mrs S’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs S. 
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, and that Creation hasn’t disputed 
these facts, I think it likely P gave Mrs S a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view. 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mrs S also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mrs S’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments Mrs S has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs S 
• 
Pay Mrs S £100 compensation 
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3963813
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs W has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
On 10 June 2014, Mrs W signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “Z” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
Mrs W complained to Creation, she said that she was told by Z that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t 
happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs W also believed that what happened at 
the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation.  
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs W on 12 October 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 29 October 2021. Creation considered Mrs W had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service on 20 March 2022 as she was unhappy with 
Creation’s response and Mrs W asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs W’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs W 
and Creation.  
 
On 12 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs W keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs W had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mrs W accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation have now had over a year to respond to the investigator’s findings had it wished 
to. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs W’s complaint, both in respect of the 
refusal by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair 
relationship under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs W’s s.75 
claim on 29 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs W brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 20 
March 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs W. Here the relationship 
ended only when Mrs W sold her home and repaid the loan with a lump sum on 7 
February 2018. The complaint was raised on 12 October 2021. So, the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs W has said that she was told by Z’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make.  
I haven’t seen any evidence Mrs W had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels 
before being approached by a representative of Z.  
 
 
 
I’ve looked at the documents from the time of the lending provided by Mrs W to see if 
there was anything contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system 
wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs W on 10 June 2014, sets out Mrs W’s responsibilities 
for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. I’m satisfied the loan 
agreement clearly sets out, amongst other things, the amount being borrowed, the interest 
to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan 
repayments. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs W’s name to solely purchase the 
system sold by Z. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs W to compare her total costs against the 
financial benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given this, Mrs 
W would have looked to Z’s representative to help her understand how much the panels 
would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the system in 
order for her to make a decision. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but neither Creation 
nor Mrs W have provided any. Mrs W said she’s supplied everything she had.  
 
However, Mrs W has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at Z’s website 
from around the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 11 
October 2013. I am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mrs W. On the main page it 
states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar 
PV systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge 
and give you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get 
paid for generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and 
how they would pay for the products being offered by Z, it’s likely this would have been a 
central part of Z’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports 
Mrs W’s testimony that Z’s representative told her the monthly payments and savings she 
would receive would cover her monthly finance payments.  
 
So, I find what Mrs W’s said believable. I think Z’s website supports Mrs W’s testimony 
that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key 
 
 
reason to purchase the system and her savings on her electrical bills and income from the 
FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mrs W would have looked to Z’s representative to help her understand how much 
the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the 
system. And it seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mrs W dealt with 
would’ve used similar lines to those Z produced in its promotional literature on its website 
at the time of the sale. So, this evidence supports Mrs W’s testimony that she was told by 
Z’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(‘RECC’) against Z. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the renewable energy 
consumer Code and makes sure that its members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated Z’s conduct and informed Z of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about Z using false or misleading information and that pressured 
sales were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing 
the contract. 
 
So, the Panel decided Z was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required 
members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 
(which concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an 
informed decision). Given RECC’s concern about Z’s culture and conduct, it made the 
decision to terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mrs W has 
complained about, at a similar time she was sold her system. 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision:  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the 
breaches upheld… [Z’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Following the RECC report Creation terminated its relationship with Z. This is also set out 
in Z’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 available on companies house. The report 
states that mis-selling issues by Z were brought up by Creation, which led to it terminating 
the contract with Z and also withholding funds as it expected claims from consumers 
under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it had serious concerns about the 
way Z was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mrs W’s testimony. 
 
 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs W said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs W left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £120 payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on, I find Mrs W’s account of what she was told by Z to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from Z.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs W’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,448 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs W’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs W’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by Z were not true. I think the salesman from Z must reasonably 
have been aware that Mrs W’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs W’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs W. 
 
Considering Mrs W’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, Z’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the 
fact it hasn’t disputed these facts, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation 
to the contrary, I think it likely Z gave Mrs W a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs W’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs W was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs W went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs W’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mrs W in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs W and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mrs W’s s.75 complaint and her other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, 
this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs W and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs W a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of Z’s assurances. That is, that Mrs W’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs W received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs W received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings.  
 
Mrs W may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But 
Creation can and should use assumptions when information is not available. And as Mrs 
W repaid the loan on 7 February 2018 around the time she sold the house, Mrs W thinks 
there is limited information available from that time.   
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs W made towards the loan up until she repaid 
it – A 
• 
Use Mrs W’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs W should have repaid each month towards the 
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she 
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual 
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of 
settlement – C 
• 
Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off 
and the end of the original loan term – D 
• 
Deduct D from the amount Mrs W paid off the loan – E 
• 
Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mrs W paid off the loan until 
the date of settlement – F 
• 
Creation should pay Mrs W C + F 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs W 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs W how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mrs W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
 
 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons set out, I’m upholding Mrs T’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair 
compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3963968
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) responded to 
claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged unfair 
relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the “CCA”).  
Mr M’s claims were in relation to solar panels that he had bought and were paid for through 
a loan with Creation. Mr M is represented in his complaint by a third party but for ease I have 
referred to all submissions from Mr M and the third party as if made by Mr M. 
What happened 
In November 2013 Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The loan 
was for a solar panel system which cost £10,400. The loan was to be repaid by regular 
instalments of £136.18 over the 120 month term.  
Although the amount borrowed was £10,400, with interest and charges the total amount 
repayable under the loan was £16,341.60. Mr M complains that the solar panel system was 
missold as he was told the solar panels would essentially pay for themselves as the 
electricity savings from the system and the income generated from the Feed in Tariff (FIT) 
payments would more than cover the cost of the loan repayments.  
Creation responded to Mr M’s claim and explained why in its view that Mr M’s claims had 
been submitted too late. Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service, 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Mr M’s claim had not 
been submitted too late and when looking at the evidence provided, that Mr M was misled 
about the potential benefits of the solar panel system.  
They set out what they considered to be fair redress to put things right. Mr M accepted the 
investigator’s conclusions but as we received no response from Creation about this 
complaint, it was passed to me so that a final decision can be issued as the last stage in our 
process. 
I issued my provisional decision on 12 November 2024, where I set out the following: 
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why  
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr M 
has complained about the misrepresentations made by the solar panels supplier have 
created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A Consumer Credit Act. Mr M is able to 
make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation per s.140A. 
The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s participation, for 
 
 
so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair relationship with him.  
This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc [2023] UKSC 34. S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same 
way as s.75. Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and 
debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor 
exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done 
by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or 
any related agreement.  
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. The 
High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the 
determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended.  
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a 
creditor should conduct its relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective 
measures. In particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to 
expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66].  
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether such 
an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the relationship 
ended. In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The 
question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, 
whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness.  
That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to 
that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship. In Mr M’s case the relationship was ongoing when he referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. At the time, Creation was responsible for the 
matters which made its relationship with Mr M unfair and for taking steps to remove the 
source of that unfairness or mitigate its consequences so that the relationship was no longer 
unfair. By relying in his complaint on the unfairness of the credit relationship between himself 
and Creation, Mr M therefore complained about an event that was ongoing at the time he 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr M’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b).  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the solar panels 
supplier can be considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. In 
Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
 
 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement.  
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming 
the solar panels supplier to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Taking 
this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me to 
consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by the solar panels supplier for which Creation was responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.  
What happened?  
Mr M says he was told that the solar panels system would effectively pay for itself within the 
loan term. So I’ve taken account of what Mr M says he was told at the time of arranging the 
solar panel system. I’ve also reviewed the somewhat limited documentation that has been 
presented to me in this case.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr M to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the loan agreement. Apart from the loan agreement referring to SOLAR PV under 
the goods section, there is no reference to any of the estimated benefits of the solar panel 
system.  
Mr M has provided a copy of a document he was given at the time by the supplier of solar 
panels system, but this is very brief and sets out little, other than the £10,400 cost of the 
system. Although the cost of the system is shown to be £10,400, there is no reference on the 
document to the additional £5,806.60 that Mr M would be required to pay in interest and 
charges on the Creation loan. It would not in my view have been possible to have 
established from this document whether or not the solar panel system would have actually 
generated enough in savings and returns to have more than covered the loan repayment 
costs to Creation.  
Mr M says he was told the cost of the loan would be covered by the savings and amounts 
generated by the solar panels system. It is clear from what Mr M has said that this was a key 
factor in his decision to buy the solar panels system. I have seen nothing that indicates Mr M 
had a particular interest in purchasing a solar panels system before he and his wife met with 
the supplier.  
I understand that Mr M had 3 dependants at the time, one of which Mrs M was a full-time 
carer for. Mr M says at the time he and his wife were struggling will bills. Mr M has been 
consistent throughout and I find what he says about the benefits of the system plausible.  
It would in my view be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mr M would have 
agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly outgoings would increase significantly by 
the amount he was required to pay through the loan repayments.  
I’m required to decide the case quickly and with minimum formality and I need to consider 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As I have already set out above, where 
the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
 
 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. On balance, I find Mr M’s 
account to be plausible and convincing. For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need 
to produce a combined savings of around £1,634 per year.  
I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr M would achieve the benefits required to make the 
system self-funding within the ten-year loan term. I therefore find the statements that were 
likely made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t true and misleading. I think 
the salesperson of the solar panels system ought to have known this and made it clear to Mr 
M that the solar panels system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall 
cost of the fixed sum loan agreement within the term. 
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely the supplier of the solar panels 
system gave Mr M a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar 
panels system. I consider this misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the 
transaction for the system, namely the benefits which Mr M was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that the assurances in this regard likely 
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panels system would have the capacity to 
fund the loan repayments. But even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless 
represented the basis upon which Mr M went into the transaction. Either way, on balance, I 
think the solar panels system supplier’s assurances were misleading and false, undermining 
the purpose of the transaction from Mr M’s point of view.  
Fair compensation  
As I’ve found that Mr M was misled into entering into the solar panels system and taking out 
the loan, I will now consider what is required as fair compensation to Mr M. In all the 
circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the unfairness of Mr 
M and Creation’s relationship arising out of the solar panels supplier’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panels system.  
Creation should repay Mr M a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably 
have expected as a result of the solar panels supplier’s assurances. That is, that Mr M’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the 
duration of the loan agreement.  
Although Creation hasn’t specifically argued it in this case, I have had regard to court’s 
decision in Hodgson. I have considered the Hodgson judgment, but this doesn’t persuade 
me I should adopt a different approach to fair compensation.  
Hodgson concerned a legal claim for damages for misrepresentation, whereas I’m 
considering fair redress for a complaint where I consider it likely the supplier made a 
contractual promise regarding the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. And even if I 
am wrong about that I am satisfied the assurances were such that fair compensation should 
be based on Mr M’s expectation of what he would receive.  
I consider Mr M has lost out, and has suffered unfairness in his relationship with Creation, to 
the extent that his loan repayments to Creation exceed the benefits from the solar panels. 
On that basis, I believe my determination results in fair compensation for Mr M. Creation 
should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or direction 
(or a combination) what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court would award 
or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is 
intended to be fair, quick, and informal.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the credit agreement based 
on the known and/or assumed savings and income Mr M received from the solar panels 
 
 
system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think 
it’s important to consider the benefit Mr M received by way of FIT payments as well as 
through energy savings.  
Mr M will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
My provisional decision  
My provisional decision is that I’m intending to uphold this complaint and direct Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:  
• Calculate the total payments Mr M has made towards the solar panel system – A  
• Use Mr M’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received from the start 
date of the loan, up until the date of settlement – B  
• Use B to recalculate what Mr M should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what he should 
have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement* – C  
• Reimburse C to Mr M  
*If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Mr M responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision. We did not receive any 
response from Creation. 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, and in the absence of any further submissions or arguments from the 
parties, I have come to the same overall conclusions as set out in my provisional decision.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to settle the complaint in accordance with what I have set out in my provisional decision, 
and above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2024. 
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3966335
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In January 2014, Mr H bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of 
credit is £11,800, the monthly payments are £154.28, the total charge for credit is £6,578.60, 
and the total amount payable is £18,513.60.
Mr H complained to Creation on 2 March 2020, explaining he thought the system was mis-
sold. In summary he said:

M told him the total cost of the system was £11,800 whereas it was actually over 
£18,513 when including interest.

M promised a tax-free year 1 benefit of around £1,851, but there was a yearly deficit 
of around £1266. 

He would not have entered into the agreement if he’d known he’d have to contribute 
around £1,266 per year for 10 years. 

He was told the system would be self-funding.

Many other customers of M have stated similar if not identical experiences. 

He was pressured into signing the agreement. 

M told him the inverter would be under warranty for 10 years. 

M didn’t tell him the performance of the system would deteriorate over time. 
Mr H said he had a like claim against Creation for misrepresentation and breach of contract 
under s.75. He said section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA deems M the agent of Creation when 
carrying out antecedent negotiations. And that the relationship between Creation and himself 
was unfair under s.140A because either Creation or M:

Failed to assess Mr H’s creditworthiness. 

Didn’t act honestly, fairly and professionally with his best interests in mind. 

Didn’t disclose payment of any commission and/or inducements paid and/or 
received. 

Didn’t provide a cooling off period. 

Didn’t notify Mr H of his cancellation rights.

Didn’t comply with the Renewable Energy Consumer Code.
Creation responded to the complaint on 6 March 2020 in its final response. It considered 
Mr H had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service on 27 March 
2020.
An investigator considered Mr H’s complaint, he thought that – 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr H and 
Creation. 
He recommended that Mr H keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr H had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. 
Mr H accepted the investigator’s view. I can’t see we received a response from Creation, so, 
the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr H’s s.75 claim 
on 6 March 2020. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr H 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 27 March 2020. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr H. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 27 March 2020, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 13 January 2014. Mr H brought his s.75 claim to Creation 
on 2 March 2020 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with it. 
Given this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. 
So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
S.56 of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent 
negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr H has said he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for by the FIT payments he would receive. Mr H said he was reassured by M’s 
representative he wouldn’t be out of pocket and that he’d save money.
Mr H has said he had no interest in solar panels until he was cold called by M about the 
system, and I haven’t seen any other evidence he had any prior interest in purchasing solar 
panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr H to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. Here I’m 
considering what Mr H had access to at the time of sale. 
I’ve considered Mr H’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve considered the contract; the likely financial benefits of the system aren’t included on this 
document. There is a box entitled ‘calculating a SAP calculation’ but this hasn’t been filled 
out. Given this there was no way for Mr H to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
Mr H has said the financial benefits were discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. I’ve looked at a copy of M’s website from June 2014, on 
the Solar PV Panels page, it includes the following –
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the 
return on the investment (as mentioned above), it’s likely this would have been a central part 
of M’s conversation when selling the product. 
Mr H has also recently confirmed that he received the following document one month after 
the point of sale, but it was verbally stated at the point of sale – 
   
So, I find what Mr H’s said believable, I think M’s website and the above document supports 
his testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be 
a key reason to purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from 
the FIT scheme would have been a central part of the conversation. 
Given the contract doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr H would have looked to 
M’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they 
would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system.
Mr H has recently told our investigator that at the time of sale the monthly household 
incomings were around £4,000, and the outgoings were around £3,500, leaving £500 spare 
per month. However, with no prior interest in solar panels Mr H left the meeting having 
agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of £154.28, payable for 10 
years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr H’s 
account of what he was told by M, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term 
commitment, it makes up 30% of the remaining money Mr H’s household had every month, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from M. Also, Creation hasn’t provided evidence to 
dispute what Mr H’s said happened.
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,851.36 per year. Mr H’s system looks like it’s performing 
slightly less than the estimate on his MCS certificate. However, I’m mindful this was an 
estimate and I’ve not seen any evidence there are issues with the system. Importantly here 
the system has not and would not produce enough benefits based on the actual and 
estimated output, to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these statements were 
not true. I think M’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr H’s system 
would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations 
that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think M’s representative 
would have known that Mr H’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the 
overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr H.
Considering Mr H’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave 
Mr H a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr H was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr H went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mr H and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Mr H’s other complaint points
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to cover off Mr H’s other 
complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr H a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr H 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr H has recently told us that his loan has now 
run to full term, and he has repaid it in full. Therefore, Mr H will only have one option that’s 
tenable as opposed to the 4 the investigator recommended. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr H’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr H some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr H £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr H has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A 

Use Mr H’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr H 

Pay Mr H £100 compensation
*Where Mr H has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3966648
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr C has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr C throughout.  
What happened 
In December 2014 Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£6,695 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £10,384.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £86.54. I understand the system was installed in January 2015.  
In September 2021 Mr C sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system 
was mis-sold. He said S told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said S told him he’d receive a guaranteed income for 20 
years and that he’d earn up to 10% per year tax free. He said S told him the system would 
be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy; his energy bills would go down; and his 
property value would increase.  
Mr C said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought S had likely told Mr C the 
system would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. 
They didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they 
thought S had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship 
between Mr C and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the 
agreement. They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and 
assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mr C pays no more than 
that, and he keeps the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact 
of Creation not investigating the s.140A claim.  
Mr C agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
The section 75 (“s.75”) complaint 
 
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the “RAO”). In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities to the debtor. So, 
if a debtor advances a valid s.75 claim in respect of the credit agreement, the creditor has to 
honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr C’s s.75 claim 
in November 2021. Mr C brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service in 
January 2022. So his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our service’s jurisdiction. 
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the “LA”), but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a 
complaint is brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction.  
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C.  
 
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr C says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr C says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr C to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out what savings Mr C could expect to make from 
the system.  
None of the documents we’ve been supplied show any estimates of the savings Mr C would 
make. I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mr C to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised.  
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr C had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before S contacted him. He said S knocked on his door to sell the panels. Mr C has said he 
only agreed to the purchase because S told him the system would be self-funding, and that 
he’d receive a return on his investment. He said S told him they’d pay for themselves within 
5 years. Mr C said the financial benefits were discussed despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. He said he retired from his main job in 2004 and at the 
time he purchased the system he was working part time. I’m mindful that it would be difficult 
to understand why, in this particular case, Mr C would have agreed to the installation if his 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly.  
I think Mr C would have looked to S’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. 
I’ve also looked at S’s website from around the time Mr C bought the system. I can see it 
promoted the system as enabling customers to generate their own electricity to avoid the 
uncertainty of rising energy costs. It said the customer would be able to create their own 
energy with no price increases for 20 years and an index linked tax free investment. So I 
think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the 
return on the investment, it’s likely this would have been a central part of S’s conversation 
when selling the product. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,000 per year. But I’ve also not seen anything to suggest Mr C’s system 
achieved the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the 
agreement. I therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. I think the 
salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement during its term. 
Considering Mr C’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the website; and 
that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr C a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of what he was told by S credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had S not given the reassurances he said he received.  
 
 
 
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. I note Mr C has 
mentioned S said the panels would pay for themselves within 5 years and that he initially 
thought the agreement was for that long. He’s accepted our investigator’s recommendation 
to have the panels self-funding within the loan term. And I think it’s more likely than not that 
the system was sold as being self-funding within the loan term. So I think the loan term is the 
fairer period to use.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr C will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has caused Mr C some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
Finally, I note Mr C also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr C’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.   
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr C has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A 
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mr C 
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr C to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early. 
• 
Pay Mr C an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr C has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3969217
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) 
responded to a claim he made under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”) and 
in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account s140A of the CCA.
What happened
In February 2014, Mr P bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
The price of the panels was £10,950 and this plus the additional costs of the loan (interest of 
£6,109.80 and an arrangement fee of £135) made the total amount payable £17,194.80.
Mr P via his representatives sent a letter before claim to Creation on 18 February 2020 to 
propose claims under s.75 for breach of contract and misrepresentation by M and arising out 
of an unfair relationship under s.140A of the CCA. He said he was led to believe the 
electricity savings and FIT payment income from the panels would cover the costs of the 
loan he’d taken out but in fact, there was a shortfall between the cost of the loan payments 
and the benefits, causing him a financial loss.
Mr P said he had not been made aware that Creation had been paid commission on the 
sale, Creation had failed to ensure P observed the relevant codes at the time of sale, and 
insufficient checks had been carried out to make sure he could afford the repayments on the 
loan.
In response to Mr P’s letter before claim Creation sent a final response letter dated 22 March  
2020 and treating the matter as a complaint. Creation declined to take further action on the 
basis that it considered Mr P had brought his claim more than six years after it believed his 
cause of action had arisen. 
Dissatisfied with Creation’s response Mr P referred a complaint to our service about the s.75 
claim and the alleged unfair relationship under s.140A on 23 March 2020.
An investigator thought Mr P’s complaint should be upheld. He said that as Mr P had brought 
his complaint about Creation’s handling of his s.75 claim to us within six years of it declining 
to meet that claim on 22 March 2020, he had brought it in time under our rules. 
However, given his view that the matters giving rise to the s.75 claim took place around the 
time the agreement was entered into during February 2014 he considered it was likely that 
the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the ‘LA’) meant that Mr P did not have a valid claim 
against M and therefore no like claim against Creation under s.75. So, he didn’t think 
Creation had treated Mr P unfairly by declining his s.75 claim.  
However, he thought that Mr P’s complaint about Creation’s participation in an allegedly 
unfair relationship per s.140A was made in time where Mr P’s loan agreement with Creation 
was ongoing.
The investigator went on to conclude that that the benefits of the panels had likely been 
misrepresented to Mr P at the time of the sale and those misrepresentations had created an 
unfair relationship.  He recommended that Creation should recalculate the loan and ensure 
that Mr P paid no more than the likely benefits he would receive over the loan period.  
The investigator recommended that Creation should calculate the benefits from the panels 
over 10 years (the period of the loan) and ensure that Mr P paid no more than that.  
Mr P accepted the investigator’s view. Creation said it was seeking further guidance 
however it did not respond before the deadline it was set. So, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.
Mr P’s loan agreement ended in March 2024 having reached the end of its term.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr P’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr P’s s.75 claim on 
22 March 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr P 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 23 March 2020. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continued, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr P. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 23 March 2020, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract from when the cause of action arose, after which they become time barred. 
It’s not clear from the available paperwork exactly when the contract between Mr P and M 
began. He signed some sales paperwork and his loan agreement on 10 February 2014, the 
goods were not installed until March 2014 and his loan agreement was executed on 19 
February 2014. Mr P sent his letter before claim to Creation on 18 February 2020, so its 
possible his claim was not time barred. However, given the conclusions I’ve reached below 
and the redress I am awarding, and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr P’s s.75 complaint. This doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The unfair relationship complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether the 
relationship with Creation would likely be unfair under s.140A.
Mr P has said he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for “from day one” by the savings he would make on his energy bills and “some 
returns”. 
Mr P has said he had no interest in solar panels until he was cold called by M about the 
system, I haven’t seen anything within the available evidence to suggest otherwise. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr P to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
Mr P provided us a document called ‘your system explained’. This set out that the “year one 
benefit” of the panels would be £179.48 – which is much less than Mr P’s annual loan 
repayments of £1,719.48. It’s possible this was a typo as the number is very similar to the 
annual loan repayment, its just missing one extra number. But I can’t be sure of that.  The 
document also said the system monthly cost would be £143.29 of which Mr P’s weekly 
contribution would be “0” – suggesting also perhaps that the solar panels would indeed pay 
for themselves. Overall, the position set out in this document is ambiguous and I don’t think it 
gives much support to either Mr P, or Creation.     
Mr P’s loan agreement clearly sets out, amongst other things, the amount being borrowed, 
the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve also looked at the sales contract with M. This has a section called ‘calculating a SAP 
calculation’ which includes an SAP (standard assessment procedure) calculation of 3,433. 
No explanation is given however of how this might translate into a financial benefit, or even 
how Mr P might go about calculating doing this himself. 
Overall, it seems that the information within the available paperwork provided at the time of 
the sale was not clear enough for Mr P to be able to compare the estimated benefits of the 
solar panels with the total costs of the loan.
I find it likely therefore that Mr P would have looked to M’s representative to help him 
understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he 
would benefit from the system.
I’ve looked at an archived version of M’s website from around the time of the sale in 2014.  It 
is mentioned several times on the website that the solar panels will “bring long term financial 
benefits by earning you money for years to come”. I think it follows that if the website heavily 
emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the profit and return on the investment 
it’s likely this would have been a central part of M’s conversation when selling the product.
Given Mr P’s apparent prior lack of interest in solar panels, and the long term financial 
burden it appears likely he’d need to take on, I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances about those benefits he said he 
received from M. I’m conscious also that Creation has not supplied any evidence or 
reasoning to challenge Mr P’s account, or the documentation supplied. 
I think it is unlikely that Mr P would’ve agreed to the solar panel system and a loan with 
Creation unless he’d been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no 
additional cost to him overall. Therefore, I consider Mr P’s account persuasive and I accept 
his version of events.
For the solar panels to start paying for themselves as Mr P says he was told, they would 
need to cover the costs of the loan and produce combined savings and fit income of over 
£1,719.48 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr P’s system was not performing 
as expected but it has not produced this. So, these statements were not true. 
I think the salesman from M must reasonably have been aware that Mr P’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of a calculation of benefits 
that had to be estimated, I think the salesman would have known that Mr P’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of his panels in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr P. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits which Mr P was expected to receive by agreeing to installation 
of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a contractual 
promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments.  
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr P went into the transaction. Either way, M’s assurances were seriously misleading and 
false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view.   
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded it’s likely the relationship between Mr P and Creation would be found unfair.
Because of the shortfall between Mr P’s costs and the actual benefits each month, he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
M’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr P received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr P 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of his FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Given my above conclusions and again bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to 
provide a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to address Mr P’s 
other complaint points about irresponsible lending and commission. I think the redress I have 
awarded is fair in all the circumstances of the complaint 
The investigator asked Creation to pay Mr P compensation of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience for not acknowledging his allegation of an unfair relationship. Creation has 
not challenged this. And it does appear it failed to address the alleged unfairness of its 
relationship with him when this was pointed out to it – perpetuating it even longer and 
causing him distress and inconvenience. So, I think the investigator’s recommendation was 
reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mr P’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments Mr P has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the known and reasonably assumed 
benefits he received over the term of the loan* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, adding 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C

Pay C to Mr P.

Pay Mr P £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
*Where Mr P has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2024.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3971765
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In April 2014, Mr H bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “G” 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
In November 2021, Mr H complained to Creation through a claims management company. 
He said that he was told by G that the income and savings from the system would cover the 
loan repayments, so he would be no worse off each month. However, that hasn’t happened, 
and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened created an unfair 
relationship between him and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it dismissed the complaint saying it 
had been brought too late under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, which set out how 
financial businesses must deal with complaints. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
When sending us its file, Creation added that Mr H had brought his claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred so was also out of time under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). 
Our Investigator considered Mr H’s complaint and ultimately thought that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr H and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr H keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr H had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was 
effectively self-funding within the original loan term. 
Neither Mr H nor Creation provided any further comments or information in response to our 
investigator’s assessment. So, I’ve been asked to make a decision on the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint and I’ll explain why.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr H’s s.75 claim 
on 13 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr H brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 17 January 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr H. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 17 January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Mr H has said that he was told by G’s representative that the income and savings from the 
system would cover the loan repayments, so he would be no worse off each month. I haven’t 
seen any evidence that he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the sales documents provided, to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the system wouldn’t be self-funding. The order form shows the 
system would have 12 panels and cost £6,995.00. The credit agreement makes clear what 
Mr H was agreeing to pay, including interest – a total of £10,851.20 over 120 monthly 
repayments of £90.42 each. But none of the documents provide information about the 
income and savings the system would generate. As such, Mr H would’ve relied on what he 
was told verbally by G’s representative. And his recollection of this is the only evidence of 
that. Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute Mr H’s recollection. 
So, it appears that, with no prior interest in solar panels, Mr H agreed to an interest-bearing 
loan with a monthly repayment of around £90, payable for ten years. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr H’s account of what he was told by G to 
be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I’m satisfied he 
would not have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the assurances he’s 
said he received from G. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and income of around £1,085 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr H’s system 
was not performing as expected, but he says his system has not produced this. 
I think the G’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr H’s system would 
not have produced benefits at this level. Looking at the MCS certificate, which shows the 
expected electricity generation of the system, and bearing in mind the relevant unit rates at 
the time, it does not appear that the system would ever have produced sufficient income and 
savings to cover the monthly loan repayments from the start. In the first year the benefits  
may have been expected to amount to about £600. So, G’s statements about the benefits of 
the system covering the monthly loan repayments were not true. 
Considering all of this, I think it likely G gave Mr H a false and misleading impression of the 
self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider G’s misleading information went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the financial benefits which Mr H could expect to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I think that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr H entered into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr H 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would not 
otherwise have taken out.
The s.75 complaint  
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Miss B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome 
in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr H a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of G’s assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the system over the ten-year 
term of the loan, so Mr H pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. 
Mr H will need to provide to Creation up to date details of his meter reading and, where 
available, FIT statements and electricity bills. But Creation can use reasonable assumptions 
for periods where evidence of the actual benefits is not available.
Finally, I think that Creation’s failure to consider the fairness of its relationship with Mr H 
when responding to him caused him some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, 
Creation should also pay Mr H additional compensation as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments Mr H has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr H’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr H 

Pay Mr H £100 additional compensation
*Where Mr H has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculation 
using known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3972188
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that two of her accounts she held with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd
are still showing on her credit file.
What happened
Miss S opened two accounts with Creation, in 2009 and 2011. Miss S believes they should
no longer be showing on her credit file. In 2016 the accounts were sold to a third party (who
I’ll call L). L are currently reporting both accounts on her credit file.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. However, he later explained he thought the
accounts should’ve been defaulted in 2012 given that they hadn’t been maintained. In
summary, he said Creation should remove all adverse information recorded on Miss S’ credit
file regarding the two accounts and pay £600 compensation.
Creation agreed to the compensation but said they could only remove the adverse
information once the balances had been cleared. Miss S remained unhappy that the
accounts would still be showing on her credit file. As a result, the complaint has been passed
to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. I’ve included an extract of that below:
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S’ loans
Having looked at the correspondence provided to us, Miss S’ accounts seem to have been in
difficulty since at least 2012 and it does seem Creation may have been assisting Miss S at
this time. However, I think there should have been a point where Creation defaulted both
accounts. Had Creation defaulted Miss S’ accounts, interest and charges would’ve been
suspended and Miss S’ balances wouldn’t have increased. In addition to this, the impact on
her credit file would diminish.
It’s unclear which date exactly in 2012 the accounts should’ve defaulted. However, Miss S
has provided us with a default notice dated April 2012 (although it is difficult to read), and an
email dated May 2012 which states her repayment offers have been rejected and that both
accounts are due to default 17 days from the issue date of the notices. So I think the
accounts should have defaulted around this time and at the latest by the following month, in
June 2012. As such, I think Creation should refund interest and charges from 1 June 2012.
To put things right, Creation should do the following:

Add up the total amount of money Miss S received as a result of having been given
both loans. The repayments Miss S made should be deducted from this amount.

Creation should also deduct any interest, charges and fees applied since 1 June
2012 because these would not have been applied had the accounts been defaulted.
If this results in Miss S having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be
refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were
made until the date of settlement). †
If any capital balance remains outstanding after the refunds have been made, Creation
should continue to work with Miss S to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan.
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
Had creation defaulted the accounts in 2012, these would’ve been removed from Miss S’
credit file in 2018 so I think it’s fair Creation remove all adverse information about the
accounts. Creation have said they can’t remove the adverse information until the balances
have been cleared but that isn’t a fair resolution to this matter as it means Miss S will
continue to be caused detriment by adverse information on her credit file which should not
be there. Creation should find a way to:

remove all adverse information recorded on Miss S’ credit file in relation to both loans
(regardless of the balances).
Miss S is concerned Creation won’t remove adverse information from all the credit reference
agencies. So to be clear this removal of the accounts should be reflected across all credit
reference agencies.
As Creation has sold the debt to L, it should arrange to either buy back the debt from them
or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out promptly.
Recent search on Miss S’ credit file
Miss S has provided evidence from her credit file under the heading “searches that may
impact your credit score”, Creation carried out an enquiry on her in October 2021. Miss S
says she doesn’t know what this relates to and Creation haven’t commented on it when our
investigator asked. As there doesn’t appear to be a reasonable explanation it seems the
search should not be on Miss S’ credit file. In order to put this right, I think Creation should

Remove this search from Miss S’ credit file.
Compensation
Although Miss S says she hasn’t made her complaint to be awarded compensation, I have
considered whether Creation should award compensation for the distress and inconvenience
it caused to her. I think it should, I’ll explain why.
Miss S is vulnerable and has clearly been through a difficult time. Her mental health has
meant she’s been unable to work. Miss S explained that as Creation didn’t default the
accounts, this has significantly prolonged the impact on her credit file and she has felt
anxious and suicidal. I also understand this is having a physical impact on her. Creation
could have avoided some of this distress had it defaulted Miss S’ loans in 2012, as the
accounts would have been removed from her credit file by 2018.
Miss S is also understandably concerned about the way Creation handled things when she
complained. For example, in August 2021 when Creation explained their understanding of
the complaint, one of the bullet points said Miss S was unhappy that her credit file showed
an incorrect default date, but this wasn’t what she’d said. So this has added to her
frustration. In Creation’s final response letter, it said the accounts are no longer on her credit
file and that it was unable to say when the information was removed because there is no
history available. But I’ve seen Miss S’ credit file which does show her accounts are still
being reported (albeit by L). So I can understand why it was confusing and frustrating for
Miss S. And given her specific personal circumstances, I think this had a considerable
impact on her.

Taking everything into account I think Creation should pay Miss S £600
compensation. This should be paid directly to Miss S, and only applied to her debt(s)
if she wishes to do so.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint and I intend to require Creation
Consumer Finance Ltd to put things right as outlined above.
Miss S had some questions about the proposed redress should this be awarded in a final 
decision, which I answered and shared with Creation. But overall, she accepted my findings. 
Creation replied to say Miss S responded to the default notice and a repayment plan has 
been in place and maintained since April 2012. They say this shows Miss S clearly wanted 
to avoid a default. They provided a history of the loan transactions and say the repayment 
plan would have stopped any interest and charges being applied.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I accept Miss S may have entered into a repayment plan in April 2012, having 
looked at the transaction history for each loan I can see that she was paying far less than the 
contractual amount. For example her loan ending *924 should’ve received contractual 
repayments of approximately £80 per month but by April 2012 this reduced to approximately 
£7 and from 2013 the repayments remained under £5 per month. I also note with her loan 
ending *759 repayments were initially approximately £190 in 2009 but by April 2012 this had 
reduced to about £22. Although payments varied slightly, they kept at around about £15 per 
month from August 2013 onwards. 
Although Creation have explained they tried to assist Miss S in avoiding a default, the 
repayment plans in place shouldn’t have been a long-term measure. I think it would have 
been evident to Creation in 2012 that it would take Miss S a considerably long period of time 
to repay the loan based on the amounts that she was able to repay each month. I say this 
because in April 2012 loan *759 had an outstanding balance of approximately £5,200 but the 
payments being received were around £22. Similarly, loan *924 had an outstanding balance 
of approximately £1,600 in April 2012 but the payments being received were around £7. So 
at that point in time, it would have taken Miss S about an additional 20 years to clear her 
balances. So I don’t think it’s unreasonable to have expected Creation to default the 
accounts in 2012. 
But even if I accept Creation wanted to give Miss S the opportunity to bring her account up 
to date by agreeing a repayment plan, I think this should have been reviewed and Creation 
should have recognised this wasn’t an appropriate long-term measure by at least the end of 
2012. And even if the accounts should have been defaulted around this time (rather than 
June 2012), I don’t think this makes a material difference to the outcome of the complaint. I 
say this because the defaults would have dropped off Miss S’ credit after six years, and 
we’re now in 2023. So if the loans had been default in 2013, or even 2014, they would no 
longer be reporting on Miss S’ credit file.
Miss S queried whether all information about both accounts would be removed from her 
credit file or whether they just needed to remove adverse information. I have explained to 
both parties that all adverse information should be removed. As Miss S’ accounts should 
have defaulted by around 2012, these should no longer be showing on her credit file. So this 
means that all information about both accounts should be removed from Miss S’ credit file 
entirely. This should be reflected across all reports provided by the various credit reference 
agencies.
Creation have raised concerns about updating Miss S’ credit file partly because the accounts 
still have balances outstanding but my decision is that the accounts should be removed from 
Miss S’ credit file regardless of any outstanding balances. 
Creation queried what interest and charges should be refunded. They’ve said that these 
were suspended in 2012 when a repayment plan was agreed and some interest would be 
front loaded. As interest and charges have been suspended since 2012, there won’t be 
anything for Creation to refund. In terms of the front-loaded interest (i.e the interest applied 
at the time Miss S took the loans), I wouldn’t expect Creation to refund this as Miss S has 
had the benefit of the funds.
Creation haven’t commented on the search they recorded in October 2021. I see no reason 
why this should be recorded based on what Miss S has told us. So for that reason I still think 
Creation need to remove this search. 
Following the provisional decision, Creation didn’t add any further comments regarding the 
compensation I outlined. Miss S accepted what I’d said. So I see no reason to depart from 
the findings reached in my provisional decision about the compensation and still think 
Creation should pay Miss S £600. 
Putting things right
To summarise, as for the reasons I’ve explained above and in my provisional decision, 
Creation need to:

remove all information recorded on Miss S’ credit file in relation to both loans
(regardless of the balances);

remove the search recorded in October 2021 from Miss S’ credit file; and

pay Miss S £600 compensation. This should be paid directly to Miss S, and only 
applied to her debt(s) if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd need to put 
things right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3976022
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr F has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr F throughout.
What happened
On 24 November 2014, Mr F bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £5,000 to be 
repaid over 120 months at £64.63 a month. Mr F told us the loan is still running.
Mr F complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and the savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation. 
Mr F raised his complaint to Creation on 28 September 2021. Creation issued a final 
response letter dated 9 November 2021. Creation considered Mr F had brought his claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr F asked us to review his complaint. Mr F 
brought his complaint to this service on 24 March 2022. 
An investigator considered Mr F’s complaint, they ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr F and 
Creation. 
On 17 January 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr F keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr F had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr F accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has provided no response to the 
investigator’s assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, 
an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr F’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr F’s s.75 claim 
on 9 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr F brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 24 March 2022. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr F. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 24 March 2022, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 24 November 2014. Mr F brought his s.75 claim to 
Creation on 28 September 2021 that is more than six years after he entered into an 
agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not 
accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
F. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr F has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr F has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr F to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr F on 24 November 2014, sets out Mr F’s 
responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the 
loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m 
satisfied the loan was taken in Mr F’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr F to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr F would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. There is 
nothing in the documentation I have seen that would have put Mr F on notice that the solar 
panels were not self-funding.
I have noted that the website that M had at the time contains benefit driven statements 
including,
“Investing in Solar Panels? You could save and earn money!
Solar Photovoltaic (PV) panels allow you to generate your own electricity using energy 
from the sun. They don’t need direct sunlight only daylight, so they also work on cloudy 
days.
Want your property to earn you money? Then buy solar panels and earn a tax-free income 
from sunlight with a 20 year guaranteed income.
The introduction of the Government backed ‘Feed in Tariff’ gives you a whole new kind of 
investment, an investment that is 100% green, tax free, guaranteed for 20 years, index 
linked to the rate of inflation take a look at what a ‘paid for’ solar panel system can provide 
you:

Earn up to £700 per year*

Up to 8-12% tax free return per year*

20 year guaranteed income

Index linked

Government backed.”
Nowhere on the website is there any warning that if the solar panels were taken on 
finance that the income and savings may not be sufficient to meet the loan repayments.
I accept that the above is something that Mr F may not have seen. But I think that the 
representatives of M are likely to have mirrored the benefit driven tone of M’s official 
website at the time of this sale. And similarly, it seems less likely that M’s representatives 
were making balanced warnings about likely performance of the solar panels, when those 
same things were entirely absent from M’s official website.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr F said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr F left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £65, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr F’s account of what he was told by M to be credible 
and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would 
have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said 
he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr F’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £775 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr F’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr F’s testimony is that it didn’t and I’ve been shown no evidence to contradict that. I have 
noted the FIT payment information that Mr F has supplied show that he was not earning 
anything close to enough to cover the cost of the loan repayments. 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr F’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr F’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr F.
Considering Mr F’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr F a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr F’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr F was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr F went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr F’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr F in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr F and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr F and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr F a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr F’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr F received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr F received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr F may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Mr F told us that the loan is still running. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mr F made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mr F’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr F should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mr F. 

Give Mr F the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr F
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr F’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3976431
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr C was provided with a loan by Creation in 2009. He was required to make monthly 
repayments of around £99 and the total repayable under the agreement was around £8,352.
Mr C says that the lending was unaffordable and that adequate checks weren’t carried out 
before the loan was provided. He says at the time of the loan he had no guaranteed job and 
he was struggling financially. Creation didn’t agree. It was only able to provide limited 
information about the checks from the time of the loan given the time that had passed but 
said that affordability checks would have taken place. 
Our investigator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. She noted that Mr C had 
experienced difficulties making his repayments from the outset but she didn’t think this was 
enough to be able to say that the loan shouldn’t have been provided. She noted that 
Creation hadn’t been able to provide the details of its checks and also that Mr C hadn’t been 
able to provide evidence in the form of bank statements or other details to show the lending 
would have been seen to have been unaffordable had adequate checks taken place. 
Therefore, she didn’t think she had enough evidence to uphold the complaint. 
Mr C responded to our investigator’s view reiterating that he didn’t have full time employment 
at the time the loan was provided and stating that further checks should have taken place. 
As a resolution hasn’t been agreed, this case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr C was provided with a loan in June 2009, and he raised his complaint in 2021. While 
Creation initially raised concerns about our jurisdiction to consider this complaint, the 
jurisdiction decision was accepted, and the merits of Mr C’s complaint have been 
considered.
Due to the time that has passed from when the loan was provided there is limited information 
available. Creation has provided a copy of the details taken at the time of Mr C’s application 
and these state he is in full time employment. Creation has said that checks would have 
taken place but hasn’t been able to provide evidence of these. I do not find this surprising 
given the length of time it would be required to keep the records. While I note the information 
about Mr C’s employment status I think further checks were also required and without 
evidence of the checks that took place I cannot say whether these were adequate or not 
given the size of the loan and any information that may have been received at the time. 
I have looked at Mr C’s repayment history and can see that he struggled to make his 
repayments from shortly after the loan was provided and that monthly repayments of £10 
were agreed in September 2009. His payments were then reduced further in 2012 to £1. 
Given the timing of the repayment issues, this does raise concerns that the lending may not 
have been affordable at the outset. But, without further information, I cannot say this for 
certain as it could have been the lending decision was made on reasonable grounds and 
Mr C’s circumstances changed shortly after – and in this case I note that he did say he was 
in full time employment at the time of the application. 
Our investigator asked for further details from Mr C about his income and expenses and 
credit file at the time. Unfortunately, Mr C wasn’t able to provide this and, again due to the 
timing, I can understand why this was difficult. However, without evidence to show that 
adequate checks would have shown the lending to be unaffordable, I do not find I can 
uphold this complaint.
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr C and I can see he has struggled financially, 
but without evidence that the loan was unaffordable at the time it was provided, and that had 
Creation carried out reasonable checks it would have realised this, I am unable to uphold 
this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough information to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3979749
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd dealt with her claim for 
compensation, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, for the supply and 
installation of a new kitchen.
Mrs M is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr M.
What happened
In June 2022 Mrs M bought a new kitchen for £14,925. This purchase was financed by a ten 
year fixed sum loan with Creation. The kitchen was subsequently installed, but in September 
she complained about a number of issues. Creation upheld her complaint and arranged for 
remedial work to be carried out. However, Mrs M was not satisfied that this had resolved all 
of the issues. She referred this complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked for an independent assessment of the kitchen to be carried out. Once 
this had been done, Creation agreed to cover the cost of providing new flooring, and some 
other work. But Mr M asked for another firm to do the work, as he had lost confidence in the 
firm Creation had been using. He also asked for Creation to pay to fit the new floor, as well 
as providing the materials, as he said that the cost of refitting a floor would be around 
£3,000.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. She recommended that Creation arrange to 
remedy several defects, and also pay Mrs M £150 for her inconvenience. But she said that 
Creation could decide whether to arrange the remedial work themselves, or accept a 
quotation provided to Mrs M by another firm. And she did not agree that Creation had to fix 
everything. She said there was no evidence that the contract for the original work had 
included replastering the walls, or restoring or finishing a door, or decorating, and so 
Creation was not responsible for that. She said that some damage to two drawer fronts was 
wear and tear, so Creation was not liable for that either. And she thought that as Creation 
had already agreed to pay for the new flooring, and for fitting it, this was enough, and any 
further compensation would be double recovery.
Creation accepted the investigator’s opinion, with the caveat that it could only remove an 
electrical switch if Mr and Mrs M allowed the workmen to isolate the electrical supply (which 
it said they had refused to allow on a previous occasion because they had been working 
from home).
Mr M did not accept the investigator’s opinion, and he asked for an ombudsman’s decision. 
He said that the compensation Creatin had agreed to pay for the flooring would not cover the 
cost of replacing it. He insisted that the contract had included replastering the walls. And he 
said that £150 was not enough to reflect the inconvenience his wife had been put through.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since both parties agree with many of our investigator’s recommendations, and so do I, 
I won’t write about those issues here. At the end of my decision I will require Creation to 
carry out the uncontroversial work. For now, I will focus on the contested issues.
The flooring
Creation has agreed to pay to provide and fit new flooring. It says the total cost of this will 
come to £538.45. Mr M thinks it will cost £3,000. I have seen no evidence from either party 
to show which figure is correct. Rather than investigating the cost, I will simply require 
Creation to provide and fit the new flooring at no cost to Mrs M.
However, so that both parties understand what this will entail, it is necessary for me to say a 
little more about this work.
The original work Mrs M was having done to her floor was to remove the original floor, which 
was ceramic tiles, and replacing it with vinyl flooring. The surface below the tiles, or sub-
floor, is made of concrete.
The independent report about the floor states that the concrete sub-floor is not level. This is 
a significant problem, because in its current state it is not flat enough to lay the new flooring 
on.  The report says that the sub-floor must be “completely flat.” The instructions published 
by the manufacturer of the vinyl flooring (which were included as an appendix to the report) 
state that it is not permissible to have more than 0.5 mm of unevenness over 200 mm, or 
more than 3 mm of unevenness over 2 metres. So the author of the report advised that it will 
be necessary to remove all bumps, and also to remove the old adhesive. I accept that 
conclusion. For the avoidance of any doubt, I find that it will be necessary to screed the 
kitchen sub-floor, before laying the vinyl flooring.
I don’t know how much that work will cost, or whether that work was included in Creation’s 
quote. (I have seen some websites stating that the cost is between £10 and £20 per square 
metre.) Creation must pay for this work to be done, either by arranging this itself with a new 
building firm, or by accepting any reasonable quote from another third party which Mr M may 
provide; Creation may elect whichever of these options it prefers. But since the builders it 
used before have already tried and failed to fix the problem, I don’t think they should be used 
again.
(Again, to avoid any doubt, this work only needs to be done in the area where the vinyl 
flooring is to be laid, not underneath the existing kitchen units.)
The vinyl flooring must then be laid according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
The plastering
It is not in dispute that the ceiling and walls were not plastered to a satisfactory standard. 
This is the conclusion in another independent report, and I accept the findings in that report. 
Creation has agreed to replaster the ceiling. The area of dispute here is whether Creation 
should have to replaster the walls too.
There is nothing in the contract that specifically says that the walls were to be replastered. 
However, the work did include removing a plasterboard wall between the original kitchen and 
a walk-in cupboard, thereby enlarging the kitchen. Although there is no written clause to say 
that the area where the removed wall used to join to the other walls would be made good 
afterwards, I think there must have been either an implied term or a verbal term to that 
effect. So while Creation is not liable for any other plastering work on the walls, I think that 
Creation is liable for replastering in the places where the wall was removed, as indicated on 
the plan. That work should be carried out at no cost to Mrs M.
The contract also included moving the kitchen door to a new location, and the report says 
that there was poor finish around the doorway. Our investigator didn’t uphold that complaint 
point, because Mrs M was going to get her own decorators after the builders had left, so the 
investigator said Creation was not responsible for the poor finish. However, the photos in the 
report show poor plastering, so it’s not just a matter of repainting around the doorframe. I am 
minded to say that Creation should arrange for this to be put right too.
To be clear, I am not requiring Creation to redecorate, or to do anything to the door itself. 
This is solely a matter of replastering.
The drawers
I am not satisfied that Creation is liable for the chips or any other damage to the drawer 
fronts. This is probably wear and tear.
The light switch
I can’t see anything in the contract about removing the light switch, which is outside the 
kitchen. Nor is it mentioned in the independent report. I don’t think Creation is responsible for 
this, unless it is somehow connected with the wall which was removed; from the plan, there 
seems to be no obvious connection. I am not minded to require Creation to do anything 
about this.
Putting things right
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and to require Creation to arrange or pay for 
the following work to be carried out in Mrs M’s kitchen at no cost to her:

Screed the concrete sub-floor so that it is level;

Supply and fit vinyl flooring (once the sub-floor is fully compliant with the vinyl floor 
manufacturer’s installation instructions);

Replaster the ceiling;

Replaster the wall in the area where the wall was removed;

Replaster around the doorframe;

Re-finish the worktop edges;

Refit the worktop upstands;

Replace the shelf which currently supports the tumble drier with a shelf which is 
strong enough to support the drier without bowing;

Adjust or replace the tall pull-out larder unit so that it is stable when fully opened;

Adjust or re-install the worktop to the right of the sink (above the dishwasher) so that 
it is level; and

Finish the plinth properly.
I am also minded to increase the compensation for Mrs M’s inconvenience to £400.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M explained that the light switch had been for the walk-in cupboard, which was no longer 
needed now that the kitchen had been extended into the space where the cupboard used to 
be. The switch therefore needed to be isolated and made safe, as this was part and parcel of 
the wall removal.
That explanation seems plausible to me, and I accept it. I will require this work to be done 
(subject to Mr and Mrs M allowing the workmen to isolate the electricity supply).
Creation said that there was nothing wrong with the pull-out larder unit. It said Mrs M’s unit 
was no less sturdy than the one in the supplier’s showroom. I therefore asked both parties to 
provide a video of the respective larder units.
Mr M provided a video of his own larder unit, demonstrating its operation. Creation did not 
provide a video of the showroom larder unit. So I only have Mr M’s evidence and the 
independent assessment to go on. I have therefore not changed my mind about that issue. 
I will require this unit to be adjusted or replaced, as recommended in the independent 
engineer’s report.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
arrange or pay for the following work to be carried out in Mrs M’s kitchen at no cost to her:

Screed the concrete sub-floor so that it is level;

Supply and fit vinyl flooring (once the sub-floor is fully compliant with the vinyl floor 
manufacturer’s installation instructions);

Replaster the ceiling;

Replaster the wall in the area where the wall was removed;

Replaster around the doorframe;

Re-finish the worktop edges;

Refit the worktop upstands;

Replace the shelf which currently supports the tumble drier with a shelf which is 
strong enough to support the drier without bowing;

Adjust or replace the tall pull-out larder unit so that it is stable when fully opened;

Adjust or re-install the worktop to the right of the sink (above the dishwasher) so that 
it is level;

Finish the plinth properly; and

Isolate and make safe the light switch (on condition that Mr and Mrs M allow the 
workmen to isolate the electricity supply for that to be done).
I also order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay Mrs M £400 for her inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3980630
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains about a claim he made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In October 2017 Mr B bought a television and added warranty protection using finance from 
Creation.
He says the picture started to get hazy and the retailer picked it up for repairs in September 
2022 under the extended warranty. However, because it could not repair the TV (or provide 
a direct replacement due to the model being out of production) it provided him with a 
voucher to buy a similar television.
Mr B is unhappy that the value of the voucher is not for the full price he originally paid for the 
goods. So he raised a claim with Creation. It considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (‘Section 75’) but did not agree to refund Mr B.
Our investigator looked at the complaint about the way Creation had handled the claim. In 
summary, she didn’t think the retailer had breached its contract with Mr B – so she didn’t 
think Creation needed to fairly do anything more.
Mr B did not agree. In summary, he says the retailer has not adhered to the terms of the 
warranty – which don’t allow it to make a deduction from a refund in the circumstances. He 
says the voucher needs to be for the full amount he paid for the original TV as the retailer 
cannot find a similar specification product with a curved screen.
The matter has come to me for a decision. Before writing this decision I emailed Mr B to 
clarify some matters and invite his comments. I will cover this in my findings below.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I won’t be commenting on everything raised by the parties - only the matters I consider to be 
relevant. This isn’t intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role resolving disputes 
informally.
During recent correspondence with Mr B he asked me to refrain from commenting on law I 
consider to be relevant – such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015. With respect to Mr B, it is 
for me as ombudsman to decide what is relevant to this complaint and consider it 
accordingly. When a case (like this) concerns the quality of goods sold by a business to a 
consumer the CRA is a relevant consideration (along with the express terms of any contract 
– including the warranty here) when looking at what Creation should fairly have done in light 
of its specific liability under Section 75. 
Creation as the provider of finance here can be liable for certain actions of the retailer in 
respect of the financed goods and services via Section 75. So in considering how it dealt 
with Mr B’s claim for a refund I have taken the requirements of Section 75 into account.
Section 75 has certain criteria in order for it to apply - this relates to matters such as the 
nature of the agreement with the parties, the way payment has been made, and the price of 
goods and services. After considering this I am satisfied that Section 75 applies here.
Section 75 can mean that Creation is liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
respect of the goods/services financed here. So I have gone on to consider this.
I don’t think that misrepresentation is relevant to Mr B’s claim as the focus is on what he is 
entitled to if the goods are faulty. I don’t see any persuasive evidence of misrepresentation in 
any event. So I have moved on to consider breach of contract.
When considering breach of contract I look at the express terms of the contract and any 
implied terms. In this case I consider the key provisions in respect of the quality of the goods 
and potential redress are:

the terms of the retailer’s warranty that deals with situations where goods cannot be 
repaired; and

the implied term by the CRA that goods must be of ‘satisfactory quality’.
Mr B has focused on the terms of the warranty. However, I don’t think the terms I have seen 
enable him to get a full refund in this situation. 
The terms state that if the retailer cannot repair the item the customer will be given a 
voucher to obtain a replacement based on an ‘equivalent or similar specification product up 
to a maximum of the original purchase price’.
I can see the retailer in issuing the voucher identified what it considered to be a broadly 
equivalent television priced at around £1,200. I know that Mr B paid around £2,000 for his 
originally. However, when Mr B’s product went wrong it was almost 5 years old so it stands 
to reason that the same or similar technology will not cost the same as it did in 2017. It is 
likely that the same or similar specifications could be purchased for much less and that a full 
refund would likely enable Mr B to purchase an overall higher specification model than he 
bought back in 2017 (which would not be fair or the intended purpose of the warranty). 
I know Mr B says he can’t now get a curved screen for the voucher the retailer provided. But 
the clause in the warranty says that the item will be ‘similar’- not exactly the same. It also 
appears this type of screen isn’t as readily produced as it was years ago and other products 
have come to market. I don’t think this is the retailer’s fault – or means that it hasn’t broadly 
adhered to the terms of the contract. 
Considering the terms of the warranty here – I don’t think there is a clear breach of contract 
and I don’t think Mr B is entitled to a full refund.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable I have also considered the term implied by the CRA 
that the goods will be of satisfactory quality to see if that leads me to a different outcome 
here. I don’t consider the presence of express terms in the warranty mean that I should 
discount the CRA (as Mr B has suggested) – particularly as in some cases it can provide 
different protection than the express terms of a contract.
The CRA says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
There appears to be no dispute that something went wrong with the television. I also note 
that it isn’t an inexpensive product. However, because of the age of the television when it 
went wrong and the lack of other persuasive evidence to show there was an inherent 
manufacturing fault I am unable to fairly conclude the goods were of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. So I don’t think the retailer has likely breached its contract with Mr B in this 
aspect either.
Furthermore, and in any event. Even if it was of unsatisfactory quality in law, if a repair or 
direct replacement isn't possible (or proportionate) then the CRA allows for deductions to be 
made for usage of goods from any refund due (arising from a final right to reject). In this 
case I think the deduction would likely be significant and possibly lead to Mr B receiving 
even less than the value of the voucher the retailer has provided to date. 
Overall, because I don’t think there is a breach of contract by the retailer here, in considering 
Creation’s liability under Section 75 I don’t think it fairly needs to do anything more in respect 
of the way it handled Mr B’s claim.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3981060
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, has rejected the claim he made under 
section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“the Act”) in relation to a solar panel system 
he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier, which he says caused his relationship 
with Creation to be unfair on him.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
In March 2014, Mr C purchased a solar panel system (“the system”) to be installed at his 
home. Mr C financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation that 
was repayable over ten years. In 2019, Mr C moved out of the property but is still repaying 
the loan.
In October 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr C’s behalf under section 140 of the Act to 
Creation. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr C to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made, which made Creation’s 
ongoing relationship with Mr C unfair on him:

The system would pay for itself through Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) payments, which would 
cover the loan repayments, so Mr C would not be worse off each month.
Creation responded to say the claim had been made too late, so it had no liability. The CMC 
then complained about this on Mr C’s behalf to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator said the claim was not made too late, since the loan (and therefore 
Creation’s relationship with Mr C) was ongoing, So, if the relationship was unfair on Mr C 
then Creation would still have liability. 
The complaint we can look at is about the response to the claim. That complaint was made 
within the time limits in our rules. However, when looking at the merits of the complaint, our 
adjudicator concluded that the system was not misrepresented to Mr C, and the relationship 
between him and Creation was not unfair on him. So, our adjudicator said that Creation did 
not need to do anything further. 
The CMC didn’t agree with this and provided some further comments from Mr C. Amongst 
other things, he said that:

He was told it was a no brainer and that he would make money. 

The loan has caused him some financial problems.

He’s still paying for the loan, even though he cannot benefit from the system 
anymore, having moved out of the property. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 56 says 
that any negotiations between Mr C and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by 
the supplier as an agent of Creation. 
Section 140 gives the courts power to determine whether the relationship between a creditor 
and a debtor was unfair to the debtor. In doing so a court will look at the way the creditor has 
acted in relation to its rights under the credit agreement and takes account of these matters 
in relation to any linked agreement – for example, an agreement to purchase a solar panel 
system. The court can look at any other things done (or not done) by or on behalf of the 
creditor before or after the making of the credit or linked agreement.
This means that if the system was misrepresented to Mr C by the supplier, which was acting 
as Creation’s agent, that could create an unfair relationship between him and Creation. 
For the purpose of this decision, I’ve used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Creation. 
These include the credit agreement and sales contract, which includes a table showing the 
predicted system performance.
I’m satisfied that the sales contract and predicted system performance table are likely to 
have formed a central part of the sales process and are therefore relevant, alongside Mr C’s 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
Mr C has confirmed he was shown information on the salesperson’s laptop during the sales 
meeting. I think that is likely to have been the sales contract including the predicted system 
performance table, which Mr C signed during the meeting.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable (£14,162.40), the term of the loan (120 months) and the contractual 
monthly repayments (£118.02, which is £1,416.24 per year). Mr C also signed this, and I 
think he’d have been aware of these figures, so could compare the costs with what was 
shown on the contract and predicted system performance table. 
Contract and predicted system performance table
The sales contract included the following predicted system performance table:
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding, when compared to the 
loan repayments of £118.02 per month or £1,416.24 per year. In the first year, the total FIT 
payments are shown to be £491.77, and the electricity savings are £234.64. This makes a 
total of £726.36, which is clearly shown in the table. That is significantly less than the annual 
loan repayments. 
The annual benefits (FIT and electricity savings) do not exceed the annual loan repayments 
within the ten-year term of the loan, being at most £1,140.35 in the tenth year. 
The total cost of the loan (£14,162.40) is not covered by the benefits until the end of year 14. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson would’ve misrepresented the solar panel system 
as self-funding on a month-to-month basis, as Mr C has alleged. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, I’m 
satisfied that the system was not misrepresented to Mr C in the way he has alleged, and I 
have found no other reason to conclude that the relationship between Mr C and Creation 
was unfair on him. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-3988915
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr J has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
Mr J has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr J throughout. 
 
What happened 
On 24 April 2014, Mr J bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £7,995 and the 
monthly repayments were roughly £105 for 120 months. 
 
Mr J complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation.  
 
Mr J raised his complaint to Creation on 3 September 2021. Creation issued a final 
response letter dated 29 October 2021. Creation considered Mr J had brought his claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act 
(‘LA’). Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr J asked us to review his complaint. Mr J 
brought his complaint to this service on 21 November 2021.  
 
An investigator considered Mr J’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr J and 
Creation.  
On 27 February 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr J keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr J had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mr J accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further 
submissions had it wished to. 
 
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr J’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr J’s s.75 claim 
on 29 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr J brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 November 2021. 
So, his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr J. Here the relationship 
ended when the loan was paid off on 24 February 2017. Mr J raised his complaint to 
Creation on 3 September 2021, so the complaint has been brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
J.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
 
 
Mr J has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make.  
Mr J has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels.  
 
I’ve looked at the documents provided from the time Mr J signed the credit agreement to 
see if there was anything contained within them that made it clear to Mr J that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. The loan agreement, signed by Mr J on 24 April 
2014, sets out Mr J’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of 
that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr J’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M.  
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr J to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr J would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr J said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mr J left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £105, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mr J’s account of what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. In 
saying that I have noted that Mr J told us that at the time of the sale he and his wife were 
over state retirement age. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances 
he’s said he received from M.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr J’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that part of the assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,261 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr J’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that. And I 
have noted that the system was not registered for FIT payments by M. So, it is not 
surprising that the evidence suggests that the solar panel system failed to generate 
anything close to the sort of income required to meet Mr J’s loan repayments. 
 
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr J’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there 
are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr J’s system would not produce 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to 
Mr J. 
 
Considering Mr J’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was shown 
at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr J a false and misleading impression of the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr J’s account to be plausible and 
convincing. 
 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr J was expected to receive by 
 
 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr J went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr J’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr J in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr J and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mr J’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair 
outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mr J and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr J a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr J’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr J received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider that Mr J received no income by way of FIT 
payments but Creation should consider any savings made through energy savings. Mr J 
may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation 
can and should use assumptions when information is not available.  
 
Mr J told us that the loan with creation was paid off on 24 February 2017. Whilst it was 
replaced by a loan with another company that should not affect the calculation of redress 
as that was at Mr J’s direction.   
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mr J made towards the loan up until he repaid 
it – A 
• 
Use Mr J’s electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and assumed 
benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr J should have repaid each month towards the 
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he 
 
 
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual 
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of 
settlement – C 
• 
Use his electricity bills and meter readings to work out the known and assumed 
benefits he received between the loan being paid off and the end of the original 
loan term – D 
• 
Deduct D from the amount Mr J paid off the loan – E 
• 
Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr J paid off the loan until 
the date of settlement – F 
• 
Subject to receiving the available up to date electricity bills and 
meter readings, Creation should pay Mr J C + F 
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr J 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr J how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
give Mr J a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
  
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr J’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3989522
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”).
Mrs S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs S throughout. 
What happened
In November 2013 Mrs S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,170.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £118.09. 
In October 2021 Mrs S sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought P mis-sold 
the system. 
She said P told her she’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments; that she’d have a guaranteed income for 20 
years and earn up to 10% per year tax free. She said P told her the system would increase 
her property value; she’d have reduced bills; and that it could be financed. She said P sold 
the system as being self-funding and it pressured her into taking out the agreement. She 
also said Creation failed to carry out a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment; 
and she wasn’t given an adequate explanation of how the credit agreement worked. 
To give some background, Mrs S said P was installing a system at a neighbour’s house and 
it arranged a meeting with her at the time. She said P told her the system cost £9,000 and P 
produced quotes from Creation because she says she couldn’t afford it outright. Mrs S said 
she was initially unsure whether the returns would be worthwhile, but she said P flooded her 
with figures. She said P told her in the first few months she’d be out of pocket but after a few 
months she’d begin to see a profit. She said the amounts she’s received through FIT 
payments have never exceeded her outgoings in any quarter. She said she and her husband 
were receiving state retirement pensions at the time, but P repeatedly told her it would make 
financial sense taking out the system.
Mrs S said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 saying it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs S decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mrs S the system 
would be self-funding. She didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the 
loan term, and so she thought P had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find 
the relationship between Mrs S and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss 
through entering into the agreement. She thought Creation should recalculate the loan 
based on known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that Mrs S 
pays no more than that, and she keeps the system. She also thought Creation should pay 
£100 for not looking into the s.140A claim.
Mrs S agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in February 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mrs S says she was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve taken 
account of what Mrs S says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs S to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement.
We’ve not been supplied a contract or other point of sale documentation that set out the 
estimated benefits of the system. So I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mrs S to 
compare her total costs against the financial benefits she was allegedly being promised. 
I’ve not seen P supplied information about the benefits, but I think Mrs S would have looked 
to P’s representative to help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they 
would bring in and how much she would benefit from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with it.
The RECC investigated P’s conduct 2014, and it determined that P was in breach of several 
sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections 
relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and 
providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
While I appreciate the findings from RECC were for different cases I think they indicate there 
were conduct concerns with P in the areas related to Mrs S’s complaint around the time it 
sold her the system. 
While I appreciate Mrs S looks like she first spoke to P when it was installing a system at a 
neighbour’s property, I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mrs S had an interest in purchasing 
a solar panel system before then. Mrs S has said she only agreed to the purchase because 
P told her the system would be self-funding. She’s also said that she and her husband were 
receiving state pension at the time which, together she said amounted to around £1,000 per 
month. She said she took early retirement and would occasionally take on some part time 
work. She said at the time they had a mobile home with associated costs of around £360 per 
month. She said she can’t remember detailed information about her other outgoings, but she 
said she was not able to save much at the time. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to 
understand why, in this particular case, Mrs S would have agreed to the installation if her 
monthly outgoings would increase significantly. I find her testimony credible. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,400 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mrs S achieved the 
benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the agreement. I 
therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. I think the salesperson 
ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t have produced enough 
benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement. 
I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs S’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mrs S’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mrs S.
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, the documentation; the RECC 
findings; and that Creation hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely P gave Mrs S a 
false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given her lack of 
prior interest and the financial burden she took on I find Mrs S’s account of what she was 
told by P credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t 
see why she would have seen this purchase appealing had P not given her the 
reassurances she said she received. 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs S’s 
point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
that the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs S some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mrs S also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mrs S’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs S has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mrs S’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mrs S

Pay Mrs S £100 compensation
*Where Mrs S is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3993316
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) irresponsibly granted her 
a loan she couldn’t afford to repay. 
What happened
In January 2018, Mrs B applied for and was approved for a fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by Creation to help her buy an item of electrical goods costing £950. Under the 
terms of the agreement, Mrs B was required to make 36 monthly payments of £34.44. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £1,239.84.
Mrs B says that Creation didn’t complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasn’t affordable. She also says granting her the loan 
contributed to her being in a cycle of debt. Creation didn’t agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included checks that were fair and proportionate to ensure the 
credit was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didn’t recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Creation didn’t act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the loan agreement.
As Mrs B didn’t agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I don’t 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, Creation gathered evidence and information from Mrs B about 
her ability to repay the loan. I understand it completed a credit check but I’ve only seen a 
high-level summary of what it showed. So it’s certainly possible that Creation could have 
carried out better checks before providing the credit. 
As I can’t say that Creation carried out checks that were as proportionate as they needed to 
be, I’ve thought about what the evidence and information showed. On her application Mrs B 
had told Creation that she was working full time, was renting, and that her joint household 
income was £38,000. Creation said Mrs B already owed around £1,200 by way of her 
existing credit cards and had to find around £380 per month to pay an ongoing loan. After 
allowing for her existing credit commitments and her new lending, Creation thought there 
would be enough disposable income for the new lending to be affordable. 
I think it would have been proportionate for Creation to have verified Mrs B’s income in some 
way and I can’t see whether this happened. In the absence of anything else, I’ve reviewed 
three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I think this gives a 
reasonable indication of what Creation would likely have discovered at the time had they 
looked more into Mrs B’s financial situation. 
Looking at the three months of joint bank statements Mrs B has given us, I can see she and 
her husband were making regular use of their bank overdraft facility, but I don’t think this in 
itself is enough to show that the extra borrowing they were taking was unaffordable. The 
statements also show that Mrs B was receiving on average around £1,150 per month by way 
of net income for herself. I can’t see evidence to show or suggest that Mrs B was struggling 
significantly with household finances at the time or that her overall financial situation was 
deteriorating to the extent that the addition monthly cost of the loan would be unsustainable. 
It follows that I don’t think that taking on the monthly payments required under the 
agreement could be considered to be unaffordable. I therefore don’t think Creation acted 
unfairly when approving the loan application.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3995512
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In July 2013, Mr C bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “M”, 
using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. He was building his own home and was 
approached by M who said he could install the system to the property. Mr C agreed to this 
on the understanding that the system was self-funding, in that the benefits from the system 
would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
In January 2022, Mr C made a claim to Creation through a claims management company 
(“CMC”) saying those benefits had not been realised. He was never provided with an MCS 
certificate and was unable to resolve this with M before it went out of business. This meant 
he could not receive Feed-In Tariff payments, so has received no income from the electricity 
generated by the system and has suffered a loss. Mr C also said that what happened at the 
time of the sale created an unfair relationship between him and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in February 2022. It treated the claim as a complaint. 
And dismissed it without considering its merits. Creation said it was allowed to do this 
because what Mr C complained about happened more than six years before he made the 
complaint. Creation said the Financial Conduct Authority’s Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules, 
about how financial businesses must handle complaints, allowed it to do this. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Creation did not consent to us considering the merits of the complaint, because it 
said the complaint had been made too late. 
Our Investigator considered Mr C’s complaint and said that: 

The s.75 claim (about misrepresentation and breach of contract) was likely to be time 
barred, so Creation’s dismissal of this claim was not unreasonable. 

The allegation of an unfair relationship taking into account s.140A was one we could 
look at under our rules and that it had been referred to us in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr C and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr C keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr C had paid for it, along with the benefits he received, to make sure the system was 
effectively self-funding within the term of the loan. 
Mr C accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, I’ve been asked to 
make a decision on this complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint, and I explain my reasons below.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr C’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr C’s s.75 claim 
on 11 February 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr C brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 3 March 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Allegations of an unfair relationship under s.140A 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 3 March 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 31 July 2013. Mr C brought his s.75 claim to Creation on 
27 January 2022. That is more than six years after he entered into the agreement with 
Creation. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the 
s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
Allegations of an unfair relationship under s.140A 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C. But in 
doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a Court 
would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Mr C has said that he was told by M’s representative that the system was self-funding, in 
that the benefits from the system would cover monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr C to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The credit agreement set out the amount he was borrowing and the costs including interest 
and fees. It clearly showed the total amount payable over the loan term and that he had to 
make 120 monthly repayments of £129.07 each. So, I think it would’ve been clear to him 
how much he had agreed to pay for the system. 
The contract, however, only showed the cash price of the system, which was much less than 
the total amount he had agreed to pay through the loan. And there is no document that sets 
out the financial benefits Mr C could expect to receive from the system. So, he would’ve 
been reliant on what he was told by M about the benefits he would receive and how these 
related to the costs he’d agreed to incur. 
Mr C has explained that he was told the system would be self-funding in that the benefits 
would cover the monthly loan repayments. However, it appears he was not provided with an 
MCS certificate, so he was unable to apply for the Feed-In Tariff scheme, which has now 
closed to new applications. So, he’s received no income from the system. In addition to this, 
it appears unlikely that the system would’ve generated sufficient benefits to cover the 
monthly loan repayment – even if he had been receiving an income. I think M ought 
reasonably to have known this at the time, and that what it told Mr C was not true. 
I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against 
M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the renewable energy consumer Code 
and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In June 2014, and later in December 2015, it 
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not 
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. As a result of this RECC terminated M’s membership, a 
decision that was upheld on appeal in January 2015. 
Sections 5.2 and 5.4 relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading 
information to consumers and to providing clear and accurate information about the cost and 
benefits of the product sold. 
Whilst I accept that the above are findings on different cases that RECC were considering, 
the findings do suggest that there were serious conduct concerns in the areas that relate to 
Mr C’s complaint around the time that he was sold his system (the disciplinary process 
followed complaints and a mystery shopping exercise in 2013).
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr C’s said happened. Yet Mr C left the 
meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of around 
£129, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of 
what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term 
commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not 
been given the reassurances he’s said he received from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,548 per year. I’m satisfied that his system has not produced 
this. So, these statements were not true. I think that M’s representative must reasonably 
have been aware that Mr C’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, I think M’s representative 
would have known that Mr C’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the 
monthly repayments as stated to Mr C.
Considering Mr C’s account of what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave 
Mr C a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr 
C and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement (which I understand has 
now ended). 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so Mr C pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Where 
possible, Mr C will need to supply to Creation up to date details, where available, of all 
benefits received, including electricity bills and current meter readings. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s unreasonable dismissal of Mr C’s complaint caused Mr C 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr C £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr C has made 
towards the solar panel system – A 

Use Mr C’s bills (where available) to work out the benefits he received up until the 
end of the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr C 

Pay Mr C £100 compensation.
*Where Mr C has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using reasonable 
assumptions where necessary. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3996500
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr N has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr N has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr N throughout. 
What happened
In June 2015 Mr N entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,999 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “E”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £17,061.60 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £142.18. E installed the system in July 2015.
In October 2021 Mr N sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said E told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-funding. He 
said E told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy and his 
energy bills would go down. 
Mr N said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in December 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr N decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought E had likely told Mr N the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. He didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so he thought E had 
misrepresented it. He thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr N and 
Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. He 
thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings and 
income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. He also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim. 
Mr N agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr N. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by E can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming E to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by E for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr N. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr N says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr N says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr N to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement.
Mr N has also supplied some further information from around the point of sale. We’ve been 
supplied an MCS certificate setting out the estimated annual generation in kWh. He’s 
supplied us a registration certificate. He’s supplied a performance estimate document that 
was signed two weeks after the fixed sum loan. This set out the estimated kWh yield and 
also set out that there was an estimated year one benefit of £643.30 and an estimated 20-
year benefit of £12,866. The form also had a section for space heating and said the total 
estimated year one benefit was £240 and the potential 20-year benefit was £4,800. He’s 
supplied SEM calculations. He’s also given us two tables showing estimates of savings, one 
of which was for a £10,999 system. This table indicates the total income and savings would 
grow from around £1,350 in the first year to around £1,770 by the 10th year. It also indicates 
that by the 11th year there’d be profit being made.  
I’m conscious it seems Mr N signed the documents including estimates two weeks after he 
signed the fixed sum loan agreement. The fixed sum loan didn’t set out any of the potential 
savings he’d make from having the system installed. Some of the estimated savings figures 
seem to be conflicting. I don’t think there was an easy way for Mr N to have been able to 
compare the total costs against the benefits he was allegedly being promised when he 
signed the fixed sum loan agreement. Mr N has indicated he signed the fixed sum loan 
agreement based on what he was told by E – i.e., that the system would be self-funding. 
While the estimated savings document he signed two weeks later doesn’t show the system 
would pay for itself, I can understand why Mr N would have thought the system would be 
self-funding based on looking at the table. It looks like E may have overestimated the 
electricity savings Mr N was likely to make. The form also shows profits are being made from 
the 11th year whereas this doesn’t take into account the accumulated losses made during the 
loan term. I think Mr N’s allegations E told him it would be self-funding seem plausible. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,700 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr N’s system 
achieved anywhere near the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the 
term of the agreement, even though I think it’s slightly overperformed compared to the 
estimate on the MCS certificate. I therefore find the representations that were likely made 
weren’t true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system 
wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan 
agreement during its term.
I think E’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr N’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think E’s 
representative would have known that Mr N’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him.
Considering Mr N’s account about what he was told, the time between signing documents; 
the documentation; and that Creation hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely E 
gave Mr N a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given 
his lack of prior interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr N’s account of what he 
was told by E credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I 
can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had E not given the 
reassurances he said he received. 
I consider E’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr N expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that E’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr N went into the transaction. Either way, I think E’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr N’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for E’s negotiations with Mr N in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr N 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr N and Creation’s relationship arising out of E’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr N a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of E’s assurances. That is, that Mr N’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr N received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr N received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr N will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr N some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mr N also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr N’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr N’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr N has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr N’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr N should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr N

Use Mr N’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan.

Pay Mr N an additional £100 compensation
*Where Mr N has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-3997915
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr L has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr L throughout.
What happened
On 9 March 2015, Mr L bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for £8,440 and the 
monthly repayments were £110.85 for 120 months.
Mr L complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation. 
Mr L raised his complaint to Creation on 22 March 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 24 May 2022. Creation considered Mr L had brought his claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and 
later Creation said the complaint that for the same reason they had no obligation under 
section 75 of the CCA. Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr L asked us to review his 
complaint. Mr L brought his complaint to this service on 8 June 2022. 
An investigator considered Mr L’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’), 
Creation’s answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr L and 
Creation. 
On 17 February 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr L keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr L had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr L accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to this assessment. As 
Creation did not respond to the assessment, the case was progressed to the next stage of 
our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that Creation has had time sufficient to 
have made a response in this case, had it wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to a 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr L’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr L’s s.75 claim 
on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr L 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 8 June 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr L. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 8 June 2022, so the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 9 March 2015. Mr L brought his s.75 claim to Creation 
on 22 March 2022, that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with 
them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the 
s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
L. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr L has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. And 
Mr L has told us that whilst he had been interested in more ecological energy, he was 
persuaded to go ahead with the solar panels because of assurances he received from M’s 
representative. Whilst Mr L told us he had some thoughts about making his home more 
eco friendly, I have been shown no evidence that Mr L had already decided to take out 
solar panels before he was visited by M’s representative.
Mr L told us he agreed to the loan due to the, 
“verbal promises that we would make money from our roof. The sales person made it very 
clear in his verbal sales speech that the money generated from the roof plus the cheaper 
day to day running costs would mean there the entire system being installed would be self 
funding.” 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr L to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr L on 9 March 2015, sets out Mr L’s responsibilities for 
repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement it 
specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mr L’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr L to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr L would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr L said happened. And Mr L left the 
meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of around 
£110, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on, and in the absence of 
any evidence from Creation to the contrary, I find Mr L’s account of what he was told by M 
to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see 
why he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr L’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that part of the assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,330 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr L’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr L’s testimony is that it didn’t. The information about Mr L’s FIT payments also suggest 
that the solar panel system failed to generate anything close to the sort of income required 
to meet Mr L’s loan repayments.
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr L’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. I think the 
salesman would have known that Mr L’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr L.
Considering Mr L’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was shown 
at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr L a false and misleading impression of the self-funding 
nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr L’s account to be plausible and 
convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr L was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr L went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr L’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr L in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr L and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr L and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr L a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr L’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr L received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr L received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr L may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
L has sold the house and does not have access to much documentation from before this. 
Mr L told us that the loan is still running. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mr L made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mr L’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr L should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mr L. 

Give Mr L the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either his monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr L
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr L’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4000486
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr V has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t respond to his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr V is represented by a claims management company (“the CMC”).
What happened
Mr V bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Creation, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly misleading 
Mr V into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which he says they weren’t. 
When contacting us, the CMC informed us that the solar panels had stopped working around 
November 2020, and that Creation had been informed of this in July 2021, about four 
months after the claim had been made. The CMC asked that, given Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) 
payments were no longer being received due to no electricity being generated, Creation take 
account of this in any settlement.
Creation took some time to respond to the claim, so Mr V referred a complaint about this to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Creation later told us that it was making an offer on a 
without prejudice basis. The offer was to adjust Mr V’s loan so he would pay no more for the 
system than the benefit it was expected to provide over the ten-year loan term. This was 
based on actual performance in the past and reasonable assumptions about future 
performance. The offer did not mention any adjustment for the lack of FIT payments since 
the system stopped working.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. They thought that the benefits of the 
panels were mis-represented to Mr V, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten- 
year period. This matched the offer that Creation had made. But our adjudicator asked 
Creation to update its calculations, since they were made some time ago.
Our adjudicator also thought that the lack of FIT payments since the system had stopped 
working should be taken into account in Creation’s calculation of settlement. Creation did not 
respond to our adjudicator within a reasonable time, so I was asked to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I thought Creation’s offer was fair and 
reasonable, subject to it updating it to the date of settlement. But I didn’t think that Creation 
should take into account the lack of benefits from when the system stopped working, since 
Mr V had not taken reasonable steps to establish what the problem was or have it rectified, 
which could’ve returned the system to full working order. 
Creation responded to say it accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add. 
The CMC replied to say it agreed with my findings on the misrepresentation and how to put 
that right. But it disagreed with regards the system having stopped working and that being 
taken account in the calculation of settlement. 
The CMC said that Mr V wasn’t in a position to have the system repaired given he was 
already suffering a loss on a monthly basis due to the misrepresentation. The CMC said that 
the system stopping working within the ten-year loan term was a breach of contract by the 
supplier. It said this indicated the system wasn’t of satisfactory quality, since a reasonable 
person would expect it to continue working for the full ten years. The CMC said that normally 
a lender would offer to inspect the system in these circumstances, which it feels would be a 
reasonable resolution. 
I’ve thought about the CMC’s additional comments, but I’ve not been persuaded to change 
my mind. So, this final decision is in line with my provisional decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
don’t consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision. 
I see no reason to make a finding on whether the system was misrepresented to Mr V by the 
supplier as being self-funding. Creation has made an offer of settlement which is in line with 
our approach to cases where there was a misrepresentation. So, my making a finding on 
that would not change the outcome.
However, I disagree with the adjudicator’s suggestion that the lack of benefits since 
November 2020 should be taken into account in the settlement calculations. 
The claim I’m looking at here is about the alleged misrepresentation, how that should be put 
right, and whether or not the lack of benefits since the system stopped working should be 
taken into account in the calculation of settlement. I am not making a finding on whether or 
not Creation should inspect the system or whether there was a breach of contract by the 
supplier. I think that should be a separate claim, since it was not a part of the original claim 
that Creation was asked to respond to. 
I can see that the CMC did ask Creation on 29 July 2021 via email if it “would be prepare[d] 
to cover the cost for the repairs of the solar panel system and the roof”. That was itself about 
eight months after the system stopped working. Creation doesn’t appear to have responded 
to that query. But it appears that Mr V has taken no action to follow that up with Creation or 
to ensure the system was inspected to establish what the problem was and who was 
responsible for repairing it. 
It appears to me that the lost benefits from the system since it stopped working could’ve 
been avoided, or at least mitigated, if Mr V had taken action as soon as he realised the 
system had stopped working and followed this up to get it resolved as soon as possible. As 
things stand there is no evidence to show if Creation has any liability for the lost benefits 
since the system stopped working.
So, at this stage I don’t think it would be fair and reasonable to expect Creation to 
compensate Mr V for those lost benefits by taking them into account in the settlement. My 
findings on this point should not prevent Mr V from pursuing the matter further with Creation, 
from getting an expert report to establish what the problem is and whether Creation has any 
liability, or from making a complaint about Creation’s lack of response to the CMC’s email of 
29 July 2021. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I uphold this complaint. In brief, that is 
because Creation failed to respond to the misrepresentation claim with its offer within a 
reasonable time. 
However, Creation’s offer seems to be fair and reasonable in relation to the alleged 
misrepresentation and in line with what I would have awarded, subject to it being updated to 
the date of settlement. For completeness, I have set out below what Creation must do to put 
things right.
Creation did not respond to the claim within a reasonable time. And it did not respond at all 
in respect of the system having stopped working despite the CMC’s request for it to take 
account of this in its settlement. I think that caused some unnecessary inconvenience to 
Mr V, necessitating the complaint being referred to the Financial Ombudsman.
Putting things right
Creation should put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr V from the solar panels over a ten-year period, so he 
pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits once 
the loan has ended.
Creation does not need to adjust its calculation to reflect that the system stopped working in 
November 2020. Creation should use reasonable assumptions for the benefits the system 
would’ve generated from that point as if it had kept working.
The calculation will show that Mr V is paying (or has paid) more than he should have, so 
Creation needs to reimburse him.
Where the loan is ongoing, Creation should restructure Mr V’s loan as set out above. By 
recalculating the loan this way, a consumer’s monthly repayments would reduce, meaning 
that they would’ve paid more each month than they should’ve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect Creation to add 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement.
Mr V should have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be 
used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr V, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr V, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr V accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr V has settled the loan, Creation should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest per 
year.
If Mr V has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Creation and Creation should:
1.
Refund the extra Mr V paid each month with the Creation loan.
2.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr V receives his refund.
3.
Refund the extra Mr V paid with the refinanced loan.
4.
Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr V receives his refund.
5.
Pay Mr V the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would’ve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over a ten-year period.
Creation should also pay £200 compensation to Mr V for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4001149
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a bathroom refurbishment undertaken by a company
that I will call “K”, a transaction that was financed by way of a fixed sum loan agreement
(“finance agreement”) with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk
(“Creation”).
What happened
On 21 August 2020 Mr H entered into a contract with K for a bathroom refurbishment costing
£8,346.00. On the same day Mr H entered into a finance agreement with Creation for the
same sum. Under the terms of the finance agreement, everything else being equal, Mr H
undertook to make 180 monthly payments of £87.03 making a total sum repayable of
£15,665.40 at an APR of 9.9%.
On 2 September 2020 K confirmed to Mr H that the bathroom “goods” would be delivered on
16 October 2020 and the refurbishment would commence in the week beginning
19 October 2020. Mr H says K initially agreed a refurbishment date with him of
21 September 2020.
On 4 September 2020 K agreed to a goods delivery date of 2 October 2020 and a
refurbishment date commencing in the week beginning 5 October 2020.
On 2 October 2020 K contacted Mr H to confirm that the goods would now be delivered on
6 October 2020 (with the refurbishment beginning the same day).
On 5 October 2020 K contacted Mr H to confirm that the refurbishment would now
commence on 7 October 2020.
On 7 October 2020 the refurbishment commenced. But due to the fitter suffering an injury it
wasn’t completed.
On 14 October 2020, and with the refurbishment still not completed, Mr H contacted K.
On 15 October 2020 a second fitter attended Mr H’s property and concluded there were a
number of issues with the refurbishment and substantial remedial works were required. K
said it would start the necessary remedial works in the week beginning 26 October 2020.
On 16 October 2020 Mr H contacted K to arrange for rubbish placed in his front garden to be
removed.
On 22 October 2020 most of the rubbish, but not all, was collected from Mr H’s front garden
by K.
On 22 October 2020 K contacted Mr H to say that it would like to complete the refurbishment
in the week beginning 26 October 2020, but it wasn’t prepared to pay anything by way of
compensation.
On 23 October 2020 Mr H contacted K to say his contract for the refurbishment should be
treated as cancelled by him.
On 26 October 2020 K contacted Mr H to say that it would complete the refurbishment on
30 October 2020. Mr H then contacted K to say that he had cancelled the contract for the
refurbishment on 23 October 2020.
On 26 October 2020 Mr H contacted Creation.
On 28 October 2020 Mr H asked another company that I will call “J” to inspect the bathroom
refurbishment and to quote for remedial works.
On 30 October 2020 K contacted Mr H to say that it would like to complete the refurbishment
and that it was entitled to be given the opportunity to do so.
On 2 November 2020 Mr H contacted K to say that he believed the finance agreement had
been mis-sold to him and he had been quoted £8,468.22 by Creation to settle it, £122.22
more than the capital sum ‘advanced’ of £8,346.00.
On 3 November 2020 K contacted Mr H to say, amongst other things:

It was satisfied that Mr H had contracted with it for a bathroom refurbishment at a
cost of £8,346.00 and the finance agreement hadn’t been mis-sold to him.

Under the refurbishment contract, it was entitled to move supply and refurbishment
dates.

The refurbishment had to be “halted” due to the (first) fitter injuring himself on “day 6”
of the refurbishment.

It accepts that the (second) fitter, who attended the property on 15 October 2020,
“found that some works were not up to the standard required and some further
materials and works would be needed to bring to standard”.

It was prepared to complete the refurbishment, but Mr H had refused it access to his
property.

It accepted there were issues with the supply of one or more bathroom goods
ordered.

On Mr H allowing it access to his property, it was prepared to complete the
refurbishment, pay him £250 and refund him the £122.22 ‘cost’ of settling the finance
agreement.
On 11 November 2020 Mr H settled his finance agreement with Creation in full.
On 14 November 2020 K contacted Mr H to say completion of the refurbishment had been
scheduled for 18 November 2020. Mr H contacted K to reiterate that he had cancelled the
refurbishment contract on 23 October 2020.
On 15 November 2020 K contacted Mr H to say the refurbishment contract still ‘stood’ as did
all its rights under it.
On 24 November 2020 Mr H noticed water leaking from the bathroom into the toilet directly
below.
On 7 December 2020 K contacted Mr H to see if was prepared to accept its offer of
3 November 2020.
On 9 December 2020 Creation contacted Mr H to enquire whether he had secured a refund
from K and if not whether he would like it to consider a claim from him under section 75 of
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr H confirmed to Creation that he would like it to look at a
claim from him under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
On 18 December 2020 K contacted Mr H to say that if it didn’t hear from him by
4 January 2021 it would treat the refurbishment contract “as satisfied”.
On 19 December 2020 Mr H contacted K to say that he wouldn’t accept the refurbishment
contract as satisfied and he had now instructed a solicitor who would be in touch in due
course.
On 24 December 2020 Mr H noticed water coming through the bathroom lights.
On 30 January 2021 Mr H advised his (second) appointed solicitor that he had appointed a
builder that I will call “J” to complete his bathroom refurbishment on 8 February 2021.
On 12 February 2021 J completed Mr H’s refurbishment to his satisfaction at a cost of
£6,740.00 (£5,915.00 as originally quoted plus £825.00 for further works).
On 25 February 2021 Mr H contacted Creation.
On 9 April 2021 Mr H contacted his appointed solicitor to say that it had now come to his
attention that there were issues with the fuse box upgrade undertaken by K as part of the
bathroom refurbishment contract price of £8,346.00.
On 10 May 2021 Mr H’s appointed solicitor contacted both K and Creation. K responded to
say it was still prepared to complete the refurbishment. Creation didn’t respond.
On 5 July 2021 Mr H’s appointed solicitor contacted both K and Creation.
On 11 August 2021 Mr H referred matters to our service.
On 16 August 2021 Mr H’s appointed solicitor contacted K to say that it believed it was in
breach of The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancelation and Additional Charges)
Regulations 2013.
On 29 September 2021 Creation issued Mr H with a final response letter (“FRL”). Under
cover of this FRL Creation said that K doesn’t dispute that there were issues with the
bathroom refurbishment. But because K has always been prepared to complete the
refurbishment, it has no liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
On 20 October 2021 Mr H’s appointed solicitor contacted K. It also suggested to Mr H that
he hold off issuing court proceedings against K until after our service had concluded our
investigation into his complaint (about Creation).
In April 2022 one of our investigators came to the view that Mr H’s complaint should be
upheld, and that Creation should refund him £4,173.00 (plus interest), £4,173.00 being 50%
of the original bathroom refurbishment contract price of £8,346.00.
Mr H accepted the investigator’s view, but Creation said that it would like sight of a number
of documents supplied by Mr H to our service (and which the investigator had relied on)
before it could confirm acceptance or rejection.
The investigator provided Creation with what he felt it fairly and reasonably needed sight of
in order to be able to decide whether it wanted to accept or reject his view.
In July 2022 Creation forwarded a response it had received from K, but it didn’t say whether
it was accepting or rejecting the investigator’s April 2022 view.
Following the above communication, the investigator confirmed to Creation that he stood by
his April 2022 view and that he would be grateful if it could confirm its acceptance or
rejection of it.
Creation didn’t come back to the investigator to confirm its acceptance or rejection of his
view, so Mr H’s complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
In February 2023 I issued my provisional decision on this case. In summary I said:
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what’s fair and reasonable, I’m required to take into account relevant law and
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant law in this case includes, but isn’t restricted to, the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(in particular section 75) and the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
I would also like to make it clear that I’m only considering in this decision Mr H’s complaint
against Creation, not any complaint he might have against K. I would also like to make it
clear that I’m unable to say what bearing (if any) Mr H’s acceptance of this decision, and any
final decision that I issue, might have on any court proceedings he might wish to instigate
against K (or any other party).
It’s clear Mr H has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm I’ve read and considered in their
entirety. However, I trust that Mr H will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isn’t to address every point raised. The purpose
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
The effect of section 75 in this case is that, if Mr H has a claim for breach of contract against
K, he has a like claim against Creation. That’s because it financed the purchase with credit
provided to Mr H under arrangements with K.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the contract between Mr H and K was to be read as
including a term that the bathroom would be of satisfactory quality and the refurbishment
would be undertaken with reasonable care and skill. And the same Act includes provisions
about the appropriate remedy where this doesn’t happen.
Creation accepts that the supplied bathroom was of unsatisfactory quality and the
refurbishment wasn’t undertaken with reasonable care and skill. But it says it isn’t liable to
Mr H under section 75 because of what K said it was prepared to do to remedy its contract
breach.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 provides for a range of possible remedies where goods
aren’t of satisfactory quality. They include, for example, repairs, replacement, a refund, price
reduction and rejection. What is appropriate will depend on the circumstances – including
the nature of the goods and of the defect.
In most cases involving the supply of unsatisfactory goods and/or the provision of an
unsatisfactory service the most appropriate remedy is for the supplier to be given one
opportunity to make ‘things good’, an opportunity Mr H refused K. But this doesn’t mean
Creation was correct to conclude that it wasn’t liable to Mr H under section 75.
In this case I can see that there were, amongst other things, a number of cancelled
refurbishment start dates and that the refurbishment (once underway) had to be halted
through no fault of Mr H. I can also see that in the opinion of K’s second fitter and J the
quality of the refurbishment (up to the point in time it was halted) was very poor and required
substantial (rather than just minor) remedial works.
With the above in mind and having viewed the collection of photographs supplied by Mr H in
support of his claim/complaint, I’m not persuaded it was entirely unreasonable for him to
have refused K the opportunity to carry out remedial works and complete the refurbishment.
But even if I was to find that Mr H should have allowed K to undertake remedial works and
complete the refurbishment, this is no longer possible given that Mr H has since had the
necessary works undertaken by J. Also having had these works undertaken by J also means
that replacement and rejection of the goods isn’t an option, at least not a viable one.
This leaves a refund, or a price reduction as possible remedies.
Like the investigator I’m satisfied that a full refund wouldn’t be an appropriate remedy given,
amongst other things, Mr H received at least some value for the work undertaken by K and
that some of the items supplied by K were reused by J. So, this leaves a price reduction as
the only viable remedy.
I’ve considered what an appropriate price reduction might be. And having done so I can
confirm that I agree with the investigator’s findings that taking everything in the round a price
reduction of 50% of the ‘invoiced’ cash price is both fair and reasonable in the particular
circumstances of this case. Therefore, I find that to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr H
Creation should pay him £4,173.00 together with interest at 8% simple a year from the date
he settled the finance agreement to the date of settlement.
For the sake of completeness, and for the avoidance of any doubt, I can confirm that I’ve
considered the rights Mr H has under The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancelation
and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013.
It might be the case that under the above regulations Mr H is entitled to an award of more
than £4,173.00. But I’m tasked with deciding what is ultimately fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances having regard to the law. In other words, I’m not bound by the law, and I can
come to a different outcome to the one a court might reach when presented with the same
facts.
And taking everything into account, I’m satisfied that a price reduction of 50% of the
‘invoiced’ cash price is both fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of this case.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision to say they accepted it.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have confirmed they accept my provisional findings I see no reason 
to depart from them and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk must:

pay Mr H £4,173.00, representing a 50% refund of the invoiced cash price of
£8,346.00

pay Mr H interest on the above sum of £4,173.00 at 8% simple a year from the date
he settled his finance agreement to the date of settlement*
* HMRC requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk to take
off tax from this interest. If M H asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been
taken off this should be provided
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4001584
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms R took out a loan with Creation in July 2021. She borrowed £25,000 over 36 months, 
repaying £800.55 a month. 
Ms R says she couldn’t afford the credit. She says he had lots of debt elsewhere and that if 
Creation had done proper checks it had would have known the credit was unaffordable for 
her. 
Creation says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Ms R and it didn’t see anything 
which might make it think she couldn’t afford the loan.
 
Our adjudicator considered that Ms R’s complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Creation hadn’t done necessary and proportionate checks, and if it had it wouldn’t have lent 
to Ms R. Ms R agreed with this view.
 
Creation disagreed with the view. It said that as Ms R hasn’t missed any payments that the 
loan must be affordable. It also suggested that Ms R may have mis-declared her income on 
her application form and that if she had, it couldn’t be held responsible for that. It also said 
that as Ms R said in her application that she would consolidate her debts with the money 
from the loan that it was reasonable for Creation to think that her existing debts at the point 
of application would have been paid off.
Our adjudicator reviewed this information and concluded that it did not change his opinion 
about the lending. 
As Creation did not agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules,guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and I’ve taken that into account when considered Ms R’s complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I will explain why I 
have reached this decision
.
Creation needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms R 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, how much borrowing Ms R had elsewhere and Ms R’s income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Creation said that it conducted checks to ensure that the credit would be affordable for Ms R 
when she took out the loan. It couldn’t provide a copy of Ms R’s credit file but it was able to 
provide the outcome of some of the checks it did. These checks showed that Ms R had an 
income of around £42,000 and that she had no County Court Judgements in the preceding 
six years and no arrears or defaults in the preceding 12 months. Their checks showed that 
she had unsecured loan repayments each month of £533 and a mortgage of around £518 a 
month. She also had a credit card balance of £8,620. It assumed that she paid 3% of that 
balance each month, costing £258.60 a month. It noted that she was using 45% of her credit 
card limits, meaning she had about £20,000 available in total on her credit card. It calculated 
that her unsecured lending equated to about 60% of her gross household income and that 
her net monthly salary was about £3,500 a month. 
Given the significant amount that Ms R was borrowing and the size of the monthly 
repayments, combined with the evidence Creation had about her significant existing 
borrowing, I think Creation ought to have done more than it did to establish the credit was 
affordable for her. I think it should have asked Ms R about her income and expenditure and 
sought evidence to verify this. 
Had it done so, I think it would have considered that the loan was unaffordable for Ms R 
To help understand Ms R’s circumstances at the time of the loan we asked to see Ms R’s 
bank statements for the three months leading up to the loan application and her credit file 
from the time. 
Ms R’s bank statements showed that her net income fluctuated. At its lowest, it was £2,800 
and at its highest it was nearly £4,000 in the three months preceding her application. Not all 
of this was earned income – some of it was from child benefit and universal credit and Ms R 
explained that she sometimes received bonuses and commission, so the higher income was 
not reflective of her usual pay. Her essential expenditure also fluctuated, and at its lowest Ms 
R was left with around £294 a month after those costs were met. That was in the month prior 
to her loan application. 
Creation says that as Ms R said she was using the loan to consolidate her debts it was 
reasonable for it to consider that her existing commitments would end – or at least be 
considerably reduced. But it didn’t ask Ms R how much she owed elsewhere or for how long 
her loans would continue. It didn’t seek an assurance that those other credit lines would be 
closed and nor did it make that a condition of the loan. So I don’t think it was fair of Creation 
to assume that Ms R’s outstanding debt elsewhere would be paid off, leaving her £800 a 
month payments for the Creation loan as her only credit commitment. 
Creation has suggested Ms R may have mis-declared her income on her application. I don’t 
think this is the case. If anything, I think Ms R marginally underdeclared it when taking into 
account her money received from other sources. Creation also noted that Ms R’s net 
monthly salary was £3,500 a month. But it wasn’t – that was her gross monthly salary on a 
£42,000 gross income. Her net salary would have been £2,685 a month, making the 
repayments on the Creation loan around 30% of her salary. Obviously, this didn’t take into 
account other credit commitments. 
Ms R’s credit file reveals that Creation’s checks did not show that Ms R had taken out a total 
of five loans in the preceding 12 months, the most recent only a month before her application 
to Creation. Although she had £8,620 owed on her credit cards, she had £20,000 of credit 
available on them in total which she could have spent at any time. While Creation calculated 
sustainable repayments on that debt would be about £258 a month, I think sustainable 
repayments which ensured Ms R paid off more than just interest on her borrowing would 
have been closer to £430 a month. Had she utilised all of her credit card balance, 
sustainable repayments would have been closer to £1,000 a month.
I can see from Ms R’s credit file that she did pay off some of her accounts, but not all of 
them. While it’s not possible to tell exactly how much was outstanding or the total amount 
she was paying for all of her credit, Ms R clearly would not have had the disposable income 
to meet new repayments of £800 a month on a consistent basis, especially if she was 
utilising all her existing credit. 
So, on the information available to me, I don’t think Creation did necessary and 
proportionate checks when it decided to lend to Ms R. And if it had done them, it ought 
reasonably have concluded that Ms R wouldn’t be able to affordably meet the repayments 
each month. So, I think Ms R lost out as a result of what Creation did wrong. 
Putting things right
Creation should not have provided the loan to Ms R. To settle this complaint Creation should 
do the following:

Add up the total amount of money Ms R received as a result of having been given 
this loan.

Subtract the repayments Ms R has made from this amount.

If this results in Ms R having paid more than she received, any overpayments must 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date of settlement.

If any capital balance remains outstanding, Creation should arrange an affordable 
and suitable payment plan with Ms R. If no such arrangement can be agreed, Ms R 
can return to this service to make a further complaint.

Remove any negative information recorded on Ms R’s credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges of the loan, but also to remove any negative information 
recorded on her credit file regarding the loan once the outstanding balance has been 
cleared.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms R a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
I have decided that Creation acted unfairly when it gave Ms R the loan. To put things right I 
direct Creation UK Plc to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4007718
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms B has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) 
of the CCA.
What happened
In February 2015, Ms B bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Ms B complained to Creation on 6 August 2021, she said that she was told by M that the 
‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from the system would cover the cost of 
the monthly loan repayments, and the system would pay for itself within eight years. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. She also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and 
Creation. 
Creation wrote to Ms B on 1 October 2021 and said it was unable to provide a response to 
her s.75 claim, it did not mention her complaint regarding s.140A. In the letter it said as it 
was taking longer than expected to resolve things, she could refer her complaint to our 
service, which she promptly did on 15 October 2021.  
Following her referral to our service Creation responded to the complaint in its final 
response, it considered Ms B had brought her complaint outside of the time limits in the rules 
we follow.  
An investigator considered Ms B’s complaint, he thought that – 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms B and 
Creation. 
He recommended that Ms B keep the system and Creation take into account what Ms B had 
paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system was effectively 
self-funding over eight years. 
I can’t see we received a response from Creation, so, the case was progressed to the next 
stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms B’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms B’s s.75 claim 
on 20 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Whilst Ms B initially brought her complaint to the ombudsman service on 15 October 2021, 
as Creation gave her the option to do so, she reconfirmed she wanted the service to look at 
it on 28 October 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Ms B. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 15 October 2021, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms B. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Ms B has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments and electricity savings she would receive within eight 
years. 
Ms B has said she and her partner were approached by M about the system, and I haven’t 
seen any evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
The investigator has spoken further to Ms B who told us that she and her partner initially 
spoke with M about the system, on or around 12 February 2015. Following this her partner 
was sent an email by M which included a document, containing a graph and a table entitled 
‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’. This table compared the yearly benefits of a 2866 
KWH system, with a voltage optimiser, to yearly finance costs of £1,182.30, over ten years. 
Ms B has said she saw this document before she signed both the contract for the system 
which was estimated to produce 2866 KWH, which included a voltage optimiser, and the 
loan agreement with a yearly loan cost of £1,184.40, over ten years.
I’ve looked at the ‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’, and it appears to support what Ms B 
said she was told about the system. The table shows that although the system would 
generate less benefit than the yearly finance costs in the first two years, by about £227, by 
the third year it would generate a profit which would increase every year thereafter.
On the basis of those calculations the table suggests the loss of £227 in the first two years 
would be recouped by profit from the following three years. And from year nine the panels 
would be paying for themselves with an additional ‘profit’ until the end of the loan agreement. 
The table doesn’t say it’s an estimate or that it’s subject to external criteria being met. 
Furthermore, the electricity cost savings look potentially inflated. I say this as the calculation 
suggests that Ms B would use 100% of the energy produced by the system. This is quite 
high given the standard assessment procedure (“SAP”) calculator and FIT scheme at that 
time were based on 50% self-consumption.  
Having considered Ms B’s account about what happened when she spoke to M, specifically 
that the system would pay for itself within eight years, I find this evidence credible and 
persuasive and supported by the above documentary evidence. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Ms B’s said happened, or the 
documentation supplied. Yet with no prior interest Ms B agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of £98.70, payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior interest 
and the financial burden she took on I find Ms B’s account of what she was told by M, 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she 
would have seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s 
said she received from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within eight years, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of around £1,480.50 per year. I have not seen anything to 
indicate Ms B’s system was not performing as expected, but her system has not produced 
this. So, these statements were not true. I think M’s representative must reasonably have 
been aware that Ms B’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there 
are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think M’s representative would have known that Ms B’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Ms B.
Considering Ms B’s account about what she was told, the documentation she was shown at 
the time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave 
Ms B a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms B was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Ms B went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms B’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Ms B in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Ms B 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Ms B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances. 
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms B and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the system. Creation should repay Ms B a sum 
that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a result of M’s 
assurances. That is, that Ms B’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits she received from the start date of the loan to the eighth year of the 
agreement. 
I consider the above to be fair compensation because in this case, there is documentary 
evidence to suggest that M appears to have gone further than to suggest the loan would be 
merely self-funding. The ‘pay as you earn solar loan analysis’ fully supports Ms B’s 
testimony, that she was told by M’s representative that the loan would have been repaid 
early, within eight years, from the income and savings generated by the system. So, the 
redress should take that into account. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Ms B received from the start date of the loan to the 
eighth year of the agreement, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important 
to consider the benefit Ms B received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Ms B will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Ms B’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Ms B some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Ms B £100.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms B’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Ms B has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of her complaint – A 

Use Ms B’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the eighth year of the agreement* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Ms B should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement of her complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Ms B 

Cancel the remaining loan balance, and show that it was fully repaid in the eighth 
year

Pay Ms B £100 for trouble and upset caused
*Where Ms B has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms B how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Ms B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4011235
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had covered 47,748 
miles.
In August 2022 Mrs K contacted the dealership to complaint about the quality of the car. the 
issues included a faulty front bumper, poor alignment, worn brake discs, a cut on one of the 
tyres, a faulty turbo and faulty wiper blades.
The dealership agreed a rejection. Mrs K returned the car, but payments continued to be 
taken under the finance agreement. The dealership then said that it wouldn’t accept a 
rejection because the car didn’t have any faults.
Mrs K complained to Creation in August 2022. In response, it said that following a vehicle 
health check the car had been found to be roadworthy.
Mrs K wasn’t happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mrs K and that Mrs K had asserted her right to reject within the first 30 days.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the vehicle health heck stated that the car was free from faults.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mrs K was a used car, so I’d expect it to have a degree of wear and tear. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I’d need to be satisfied that the car had a fault at the point 
of supply which made it of unsatisfactory quality, as opposed to a fault which occurred due to 
general wear and tear.
I’ve considered all of the available information and I’ve thought about whether there was a 
fault with the car which made it of unsatisfactory quality. Based on what I’ve seen, I think it’s 
likely that there was a fault with the car. the vehicle health check dated 18 July 2022 states 
that there is a deep cut on the tyre, the front bumper has fallen off, the wipers are skipping, 
and the brake discs are scored and lipped. 
I’ve also had regard to what Mrs K has said about the burning smell coming from the turbo. I 
haven’t seen any engineering evidence or diagnostic evidence about the turbo, but I have 
seen a photo showing that the metal plate covering the turbo has been burnt.
Creation has said that the car underwent a vehicle health check after Mrs K had returned it 
to the dealership and that it was found to be fault free. I’ve looked at the vehicle health 
check. However, it appears to have been carried out after repairs were completed. I haven’t 
seen any evidence to persuade me that Mrs K agreed to repairs, after she had exercised her 
short term right to reject. Because of this, I’m not persuaded that the vehicle health check 
relied on by Creation is representative of the condition of the car when it was supplied to Mrs 
K.
I’ve gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
The available evidence – including the vehicle health check dated 18 July 2022 and Mrs K’s 
testimony about the faults with the bumper, the tyre and the brakes, is sufficient to persuade 
me that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
The evidence shows that Mrs K asserted her short term right to reject the car. I’ve seen 
evidence which shows that the dealership agreed to this and told Mrs K that it would unwind 
the finance package. I haven’t seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs K retracted her 
request to reject and/or agreed to repairs.
Because Mrs K asserted her short term right to reject the car within the first 30 days, and 
because I’m satisfied that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, I’m of 
the view that Mrs K should be allowed to reject the car. 
Putting things right
I’ve already explained why I think Mrs K should be allowed to reject the car.
In relation to the storage charges and the vehicle health check fee sought by Creation, I 
don’t think its fair for Mrs K to pay this. Mrs k asserted her short time right to reject a car 
which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. The request was accepted by the dealership. I’m not 
persuaded that there is any reasonable basis to charge storage and /or inspection fees. 
Creation should remove these charges.
Mrs K hasn’t used the car since she acquired it because of the faults. I think it was 
reasonable for Mrs K not to drive the car. Because of this, I don’t think its fair for Mrs K to 
pay for a car she hasn’t been able to use. Creation should refund all monthly payments 
made by Mrs K.
Its clear that Mrs K has been caused significant distress and inconvenience as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasn’t of satisfactory quality. She’s described the impact this 
has had on her wellbeing. I think its fair to ask Creation to pay compensation to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs K to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs K
Refund the advance payment of £250
Refund all monthly payments made under the agreement
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Remove any negative information from Mrs K’s credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4011509
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a laptop he bought using a running account credit 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation). 
What happened
Mr T bought a laptop and three-year care plan for £1,898 in December 2016 using a running 
account credit agreement with Creation. The laptop cost £1,749, the care plan cost £199, 
and Mr T used a £50 coupon.
Mr T tells us a fault occurred with the laptop display in June 2022, so he took it to a 
manufacturer approved outlet to be examined. He says he sent the laptop to the supplier 
and complained about its quality. Mr T says the supplier told him it was unable to repair it as 
it couldn’t obtain the parts. But it offered him a partial refund of £247.48 taking into account 
he’d been able to use the laptop for over five years. Mr T says he didn’t want to accept this 
as the supplier would keep the laptop. So he arranged to have it repaired at his own 
expense. Mr T says he would ideally like a replacement laptop as he has no confidence the 
problem won’t happen again. As a minimum he’d like to be reimbursed for the cost of repair. 
As the supplier didn’t resolve things for Mr T he contacted Creation to complain. Creation 
rejected the claim and sent Mr T a final response letter in November 2022. Mr T decided to 
bring the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things but didn’t think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint. She noted the manufacturer diagnosis report said We cannot tell whether this is 
fundamentally an inevitable issue from purchase. Given the laptop worked without issue for 
over five years she didn’t think it was of unsatisfactory quality. So she didn’t make any 
recommendations. 
Mr T didn’t agree. He says he thinks he’s covered for six years if there’s no adverse use of 
the laptop and it hadn’t been damaged. He points towards other consumers who’ve 
experienced the same issue. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any 
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr T 
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s 
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Mr T used a regulated running account credit agreement to purchase the laptop and our 
service is able to consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So in this case section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 makes Creation responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation under certain 
conditions. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory – taking into account the description of the goods, the price or other 
consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances. 
Section 9(3) of the CRA says: 
“The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects 
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods—
(a)  fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually 
supplied;
(b)  appearance and finish;
(c)  freedom from minor defects;
(d)  safety;
(e)  durability.”
In this case the laptop was new when Mr T bought it. So it should have been free from even 
minor defects and been durable. The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the 
contract at any time within the period of six months beginning with the day on which the 
goods were delivered to the consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day 
unless it’s established the goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the 
application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to 
the contract. I believe Mr T used the laptop for five and a half years without any issues. So 
I’d need to see sufficient evidence from Mr T to demonstrate the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality when it was sold to him in order to say there’d been a breach of contract. 
I’ve therefore gone on to think about the evidence supplied relating to the diagnosis of the 
problem that Mr T obtained from the manufacturer. On the one hand, the diagnosis set out 
Mr T said he’d researched the issue and found out that it was widespread on the particular 
model he’d bought. And the manufacturer also said there was no signs the issue had been 
caused or worsened by Mr T. But on the other hand the manufacturer also said it couldn’t tell 
whether the issue was inevitable from purchase. 
Given the fault happened five and a half years after purchase, I’d like to have had much 
more certainty the fault was something that made the laptop of unsatisfactory quality when 
Mr T bought it. There’s a variety of things that can go wrong with electrical goods. But there’s 
insufficient evidence the problem was present or developing at the point of sale. While I can 
understand why Mr T was disappointed, given the time taken for the fault to manifest, I’ve 
not seen enough to demonstrate the laptop wasn’t durable. 
I note Mr T has mentioned he should be covered for six years. There is legislation in 
England and Wales that relates to there being a limitation on making certain claims within six 
years. But the legislation that’s most relevant here – the CRA – doesn’t say that goods 
purchased by consumers should be covered for six years. 
Therefore, while I sympathise with the situation, I don’t find there’s sufficient evidence of a 
breach of contract for which Creation would be liable under section 75. So I don’t have the 
grounds to direct Creation to reimburse Mr T for what went wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4018124
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has applied interest to 
her finance account. 
What happened
It appears Miss H took out a financing agreement with Creation in September 2020 with an 
initial drawdown of £358. This was fully repaid inside the agreed Buy Now Pay Later period 
(BNPL). 
Miss H used her finance account in January 2022 to make another purchase for £2,249. This 
was on a BNPL period of nine months and therefore interest wouldn’t become applicable 
until after 8 October 2022. Miss H also made a third purchase on her finance account for 
£378 in August 2022. 
Miss H says she wasn’t informed of when the BNPL ended for the drawdown she’d made in 
January 2022. She says she received an email from Creation on 19 October 2022 and then 
went online to pay on 21 October 2022. However, the interest had already been applied. 
Miss H says she called Creation the same day and was advised she would receive a call 
back from a manager. 
As no call back was received, Miss H called Creation again on 25 October 2022. Creation 
says the agent on this call advised Miss H the interest will stand but said a manager will call 
back within 48 hours. Creation says an email was sent to Miss H by a manager on
27 October 2022 to inform her she was liable for the interest. Miss H replied explaining the 
response didn’t address her points and she wanted a call back. Miss H called Creation again 
on 2 November 2022, as she hadn’t received a call back. Miss H says following this she 
received an email saying Creation were looking into her complaint. 
On 17 November 2022, Creation issued its final response. In this it explained the notification 
of the BNPL end date for the second drawdown in January 2022, would’ve been at the point 
of sale and via her Online Account Manager. Creation said it had sent an email following the 
first drawdown Miss H made, to register for the Online Account Manager. However, Miss H 
didn’t register until after the BNPL period had ended on the second drawdown, at which 
point interest for that had already been applied. 
Creation also explained it had sent email notifications to Miss H to advise statements were 
available. It said had she followed the links included in the email notifications, she would’ve 
been required to register for the Online Account Manager which would’ve allowed her to 
view the statements and see when the BNPL period ended. 
Given this Creation said it had made Miss H aware of when the BNPL period was due to end 
and that interest would apply if the full balance wasn’t repaid by then. Creation paid Miss H 
£50 for the distress and inconvenience she’d been caused, but said the interest remained 
payable. 
Unhappy with this, Miss H referred her complaint to our service. She said she didn’t receive 
any notifications of when the BNPL period was ending. One of our investigators looked into 
the complaint and requested Creation provide evidence of how Miss H was told of the BNPL 
end date at the point of sale, that Miss H had been sent emails to register for the Online 
Account Manager and evidence email notifications had been issued advising Miss H her 
statements were available. 
Creation didn’t reply and so the investigator based their findings on the evidence that had 
been provided. They said Creation hadn’t satisfied them it had acted fairly and therefore 
interest and charges applied should be refunded, plus 8% simple interest. Miss H agreed to 
the investigator’s view, but Creation didn’t reply. Therefore, the complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
I contacted Creation and gave it another opportunity to respond to the investigator’s findings 
or provide the information that had previously been asked for. 
Creation did reply to my email and said the BNPL end date would’ve been confirmed at the 
point of sale via the credit agreement. The credit agreement it provided however appears to 
be for the first drawdown of £358 in September 2020. Creation also said it had requested the 
information regarding the emails sent and would provide this by the beginning of June 2023.
The information regarding the emails wasn’t provided and so I chased this twice and 
explained if the information wasn’t received, I would issue my decision based on the 
evidence that is available. As Creation still haven’t replied, I’ve reached a view based on the 
evidence I do have. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I would also like to point out I’ve read and 
considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on board and think 
about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I’m satisfied Creation has been sent multiple requests to provide the requested evidence and 
given ample time to do so. But for reasons unknown, it hasn’t. Therefore, based on the 
evidence available, I’m not persuaded Creation provided Miss H with adequate notification of 
when the BNPL period was due to end. I’ll explain why below. 
Creation hasn’t provided a copy of the agreement that details the £2,249 drawdown Miss H 
made in January 2022. It has instead provided the agreement for the initial drawdown which 
happened over 12 months before. While I acknowledge the agreement would likely have 
been similar for the second drawdown, I can’t say that agreement did detail clearly when the 
BNPL period ended. 
In any event, even if the agreement provided at the point of sale did detail the BNPL end 
date, I would expect Creation to provide notification that the BNPL period was ending nearer 
to the expiry date. This is in line with what Creation explained in its final response where it 
said notification would not only be at the point of sale, but also via the Online Account 
Manager. 
Creation has said that Miss H would’ve been sent an email to register for the Online Account 
Manager. Miss H says she never received this and would’ve registered sooner if she had. 
Creation has provided evidence that shows the Online Account Manager invitation mail was 
sent to Miss H on 21 October 2022, after she’d made contact disputing the interest. Miss H 
registered the same day. 
As explained, Creation has been asked to provide evidence that an email to register for the 
Online Account Manager was sent before that but hasn’t done so. Therefore, I’m not 
satisfied Miss H was sent anything prior to the end of her BNPL period, as the evidence 
available shows Miss H was only notified about the invitation to register for the Online 
Account Manager on 21 October 2022. 
It’s a similar situation regarding the notification that statements were available, Creation says 
Miss H would’ve been sent. Creation has provided evidence that shows the statements were 
produced. And one of these (August 2022’s) was opened on 2 November 2022, after Miss H 
registered for the Online Account Manager. However, the evidence doesn’t clearly 
demonstrate that actual email notifications were sent that advised Miss H she could now 
view the statements. Creation has been asked to provide further evidence to show that email 
notifications were sent to Miss H, but again hasn’t done so. 
As I’ve said above, I’m not persuaded based on the evidence available that Creation has 
acted fairly in this case. 
Putting things right

Creation should rework Miss H’s account as if the interest related to the £2,249 
drawdown (and any charges associated to it) was never applied to Miss H’s account. 
If this results in the account being in a position of credit, that credit balance should be 
refunded to Miss H plus 8% simple interest. The 8% interest would be from the date 
of the position of credit, until date of settlement. 

Given the interest rework detailed above, it follows that Creation should remove any 
adverse information that may’ve been recorded onto Miss H’s credit file regarding the 
£2,249 drawdown. 

I note Creation offered to pay Miss H £50. I’m satisfied this amount is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
failures in responding to her. Therefore, Creation should pay this £50 to Miss H, if it 
hasn’t already done so. 
My final decision
I’m upholding Miss H’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right in 
the way I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4018234
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA. 
 
What happened 
In June 2014, Mr C bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “P” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of credit 
is £8,899, the 120 monthly payments are £116.78 and the total amount payable is 
£17,512.80. 
 
Mr C sent a letter of claim to Creation on 1 December 2021, explaining he thought the 
system was mis-sold. In summary he said: 
 
• 
He was told by P that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from 
the system would cover the cost of the loan repayments  
• 
P said he had guaranteed income for 20 years 
• 
He would earn 10% per annum tax free 
• 
His property value would increase  
• 
The system was maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy 
 
Mr C also said that there had been breaches under the CCA and Financial Conduct 
Authority (‘FCA’) rules, and the relationship between Creation and himself was unfair under 
s.140A because either Creation or P: 
 
• 
Failed to undertake a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment 
• 
Failed to supply pre contractual information, and where information was provided, he 
wasn’t given any time to consider it 
• 
Failed to provide Mr C with a cancellation notice 
• 
Conducted a high-pressure sale 
• 
Didn’t explain the full details of the credit agreement 
• 
Didn’t disclose payment of any commission made and/or received  
 
Creation responded to the claim on 8 December 2021 in its final response. It considered Mr 
C had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’).  
 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C referred his complaint to our service on 22 
February 2022. 
 
An investigator considered Mr C’s complaint, she thought that –  
 
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
 
 
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr C and 
Creation.  
She recommended that Mr C keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr C had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. And that Creation should pay Mr C £100 for the trouble and upset caused by not 
originally looking into the s.140A complaint.  
 
Mr C accepted the assessment. Creation did not respond. So, the case was progressed to 
the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr C’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr C’s s.75 claim 
on 8 February 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr 
C brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2022, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘S.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
 
 
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mr C has said he was told by P’s representative that the monthly payments and savings he 
would receive would cover his monthly finance payments. Mr C told us that he’d not 
considered purchasing solar panels before P approached him, and I haven’t seen any other 
evidence Mr C had any prior interest in purchasing them.  
 
Mr C has said he remembers being given documentation from P. I’ve looked at the 
documents Mr C has been able to provide to see if there was anything contained within them 
that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mr C’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other 
things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the 
term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. So, I’m satisfied the loan 
was taken in Mr C’s name to solely purchase the system sold by P. 
 
But neither the loan agreement, the quotation form, the invoice nor the MCS Certificate 
contain any mention of the income or savings that may be generated. So, at the time the 
loan was agreed to, there was no way for Mr C to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised from those documents. Given this, Mr 
C would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the panels 
would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system in 
order for him to make a decision. 
 
The Handover Certificate has some information of that nature but was dated after the 
installation. So, it’s difficult to see how Mr C could have been expected to use that when 
making his decision.  
 
Mr C has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at P’s website from around 
the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 11 October 2013. I 
am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when considering what’s more 
likely than not to have been said to Mr C. On the main page it states – 
 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated –  
 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
 
 
 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mr C’s 
testimony that P’s representative told him the monthly payments and savings he would 
receive would cover his monthly finance payments.  
 
So, I find what Mr C’s said believable, I think P’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation.  
 
I think Mr C would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr C’s testimony that he was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
 
Important to note here are the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the renewable energy 
consumer Code and makes sure that its members comply with it. 
 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
 
So, the Panel decided P was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate P’s membership of RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr C has 
complained about, at a similar time he was sold his system. 
 
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision:  
 
• 
‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’  
• 
‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
 
 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [P’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’ 
 
Creation have also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 
available on companies house. The report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it 
had serious concerns about the way P was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mr C’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr C’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr C left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of £116.78, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial 
burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of what he was told by P, credible and persuasive.  
 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,401.36 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr C’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mr C’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by P were not true. I think P’s representative must reasonably 
have been aware that Mr C’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an 
example, I think P’s representative would have known that Mr C’s system would not produce 
enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to 
Mr C. 
 
Considering Mr C’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, P’s website, RECC’s findings, Creation’s actions and the 
fact it hasn’t disputed these facts, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation 
to the contrary, I think it likely P gave Mr C a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr C’s account to be plausible 
and convincing. 
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point 
of view. 
 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair. 
 
 
 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr C’s s.75 complaint and his other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t 
stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Fair compensation  
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
P’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr C 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr C told us he had never received FIT 
payments. So, Creation will need to use that information in its calculation of fair 
compensation.  
 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr C’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr C some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr C £100. 
 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 
 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr C has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr C 
• 
Pay Mr C £100 for trouble and upset caused 
 
 
 
*Where Mr C has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
Putting things right 
I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as 
detailed above. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr C’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4020803
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In June 2012, Mr K bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “G” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of credit 
is £6,000, the first payment due is £161.75 followed by monthly payments of £86.75, the 
total charge for credit is £4,410, a £75 admin fee is included, and the total amount payable is 
£10,485.
On 16 September 2021 Mr K sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the 
system had been misrepresented and there was a breach of contract. In summary he said 
that:

He was told by G that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from 
the system would cover the cost of the loan repayments 

G said he had guaranteed income for 20 years

He would earn 10% per annum tax free

His property value would increase 

The system was maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy
Mr K also said that there had been breaches under the CCA and Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) rules, and the relationship between Creation and himself was unfair under s.140A 
because either Creation or G:

Failed to undertake a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment

Failed to supply pre contractual information, and where information was provided, he 
wasn’t given any time to consider it

Failed to provide Mr K with a cancellation notice

Conducted a high-pressure sale

Didn’t disclose payment of any commission made and/or received 
Creation responded to the complaint on 9 November 2021 in its final response, it considered 
Mr K had brought his complaint outside of the time limits in the rules we follow.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service on 
18 November 2021.
An investigator considered Mr K’s complaint, she thought that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr K and 
Creation. 
She recommended that Mr K keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr K had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. She also recommended Creation pay £100 compensation for the impact of not 
looking into the s.140A complaint.
Mr K accepted the investigator’s view. I can’t see we received a response from Creation, so, 
the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr K’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr K’s s.75 claim on 
9 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr K 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 November 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr K. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 18 November 2021, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr K has told this service that he first came into contact with G when a leaflet was dropped 
through his letter box containing information about free solar panels. So, he asked G to 
attend his property, however G’s representative told him he couldn’t have free solar panels, 
but if he bought them with finance the cost of the system would be fully paid for by the FIT 
payments and electricity savings he would receive, and he wouldn’t be financially worse off.
Mr K has said he had no interest in solar panels until he saw the leaflet, and I haven’t seen 
any other evidence he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr K to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
I’ve considered Mr K’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
We asked Mr K to provide all of the documents he had from the point of sale, Mr K was able 
to provide an order form for the system, but not a copy of a contract. The order form doesn’t 
include the likely financial benefits of the system. As I said I haven’t seen a copy of the 
contract, however based on the evidence in front of me, there doesn’t seem to be a way for 
Mr K to have been able to compare his total costs against the financial benefits he was 
allegedly being promised. 
Mr K has said the financial benefits were discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. I’ve looked at a copy of G’s website from July 2012, on the 
‘Home page’, it includes the following statement:
‘Are you eligible? To be eligible for FREE solar panels you must:

Own your own home 

Have a south facing roof’
A link is included, to see if the property is suitable. As I set out above the first contact Mr K 
had with G was a leaflet dropped through his letter box about free solar panels. I think the 
website supports this part of his testimony.
The website also includes a ‘Solar Loans’ page, under the heading ‘Want your own Solar 
Panels’ G explains that they offer a range of payment options, for one package G describes 
that generally the tariff payments and electricity savings offset the monthly instalments of an 
agreement, G goes on to say:
‘This would mean your system being self-financing over the 10 year period, where you can 
then enjoy the final 15 years of tariff payments and substantially reduced bills with no 
outgoings’
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and how 
it would cover the repayments of finance agreements, it’s likely this would have been a 
central part of G’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also strongly 
supports Mr K’s testimony that G’s representative told him, if he bought the system with 
finance, it would be fully paid for by his FIT payments and electricity savings. 
So, I find what Mr K’s said believable, I think G’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that the benefits would be a key reason 
to purchase the system, and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT 
scheme would have been a central part of the conversation. 
Given the documents I’ve seen don’t contain information about the benefits, Mr K would 
have looked to G’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, 
what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system. And as I’ve said I 
think the website supports Mr K’s testimony that he was told by G’s representative the 
system would be self-funding.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr K said happened, or the 
documentation supplied. However, with no prior interest in solar panels before receiving the 
leaflet from G, Mr K left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a 
monthly repayment of £86.75, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest, and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr K’s account of what he was told by G, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from G. This is further supported by G’s website.
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,041 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr K’s 
system was not performing as expected, but his system has not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think G’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr K’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think G’s 
representative would have known that Mr K’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr K.
Considering Mr K’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, G’s website and that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely G 
gave Mr K a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr K was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr K went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr K’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Mr K in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr K 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr K’s s.75 complaint and his other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t 
stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.  
Fair compensation
 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr K and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr K a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of G’s assurances. That is, that Mr K’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr K received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr K received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr K 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr K has recently told us that his loan has now 
run to full term, and he has repaid it in full. Therefore, Mr K will only have one option that’s 
tenable as opposed to the 4 the investigator recommended.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s refusal to look at Mr K’s s.140A complaint, caused him 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr K £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr K’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr K has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A 

Use Mr K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr K should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr K 

Pay Mr K £100 for trouble and upset caused
*Where Mr K has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4026515
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that he wasn’t able to access his account with Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd, who I’ll call “Creation”, via the online account management system, and he therefore 
missed a payment, and attracted interest, for an item he bought on Buy Now Pay Later 
terms.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I don’t think Creation need to take any action here. I’ll 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I accept that Mr H entered into his Buy Now Pay Later transaction with the intention of using 
his online account to make payment before the interest free period expired. I also accept that 
Mr H had trouble accessing his account online in order to check when payments were due 
and to make one.
However, I don’t think Creation were obliged to provide online access, and I think the onus 
was on Mr H to ensure payments reached his account in time in order to avoid attracting 
interest. In the absence of the online platform, he could still have paid via bank transfer, 
cheque, or Creation’s automated system, and I think it’s likely he would have known that was 
a possibility and at least had an approximate understanding of when his Buy Now Pay Later 
would attract interest.
Mr H’s “account details” suggest he had opted to receive statements via email and the email 
address Creation had for him was the same one we’ve been using for correspondence. I 
think it’s therefore also likely that Mr H was receiving statements from Creation. Having 
looked at those statements I can see they identified when the Buy Now Pay Later account 
was set to attract interest. That seems another reason why Mr H should have been aware of 
the need to pay, albeit by alternative means from the online portal he wished to use.
Ultimately, I don’t think Creation have done anything wrong here.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4026860
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P complains about the outcome of her section 75 claim with Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd (“Creation”)
What happened
In February 2022 Mrs P was supplied with a laptop, financed under a Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL) agreement provided by Creation. 
Around five months later Mrs P returned the laptop to the supplier because it wouldn’t turn 
on. Although it seems repairs were carried out, Mrs P then raised a section 75 claim with 
Creation in August 2022. She said that she believed that the laptop she’d been supplied had 
been modified and had been supplied second-hand.
Creation responded in December 2022. It said it had liaised with the supplier which told it 
that the laptop provided to Mrs P was new and unboxed in store at the point it was set up 
and supplied to her.
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service in December 2022. In summary, she said that 
when the laptop had been supplied to her, she had been told it had been customised. She 
said whilst it wasn’t explained exactly what that meant, she believed that the laptop’s 
subsequent failure was due to it having been fitted with an incompatible operating system. 
She alleged that she had been supplied with a second-hand laptop.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. They said that the laptop worked for a number 
of months before becoming inoperable, but its failure doesn’t suggest that it was second-
hand when supplied. They also said that under relevant legislation Creation should be given 
the opportunity to repair the goods, should they have not been of satisfactory quality, and 
based on what they’d seen, that repair had been carried out. 
Mrs P disagreed. She maintained that she’d been supplied with a second-hand laptop and 
said that we’d been provided with a call recording with the supplier in which it accepted that 
was the case. 
Our investigator disagreed that had been said and Mrs P asked for the case to be passed to 
an ombudsman. She also provided examples of similar problems she said other customers 
had faced with the same supplier.
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P made a number of detailed submissions to this service regarding her complaint. She 
might find that I’ve presented events in far less detail than in her submissions. That’s simply 
because I don’t find it necessary to mirror that level of detail in explaining what I think a fair 
and reasonable outcome is. So, if I don’t mention something that Mrs P did, it’s not because 
I’ve not considered it – I can assure Mrs P that I’ve carefully considered all of her 
submissions in detail.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I’m required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that 
means that if Mrs P has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, then she also has a ‘like claim’ against the finance provider.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality – defined as whether they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers 
to the durability of the goods.
Mrs P has provided what she considers to be evidence of other consumers experiencing a 
similar fault with the same supplier. Whilst I’ve taken what she’s provided into account, it 
doesn’t persuade me that Mrs P has necessarily experienced the same problem as others. 
So, I’ll base my decision on the evidence available to me in relation to the events which led 
to Mrs P’s complaint.
It seems all parties agree that Mrs P entered into a contract with the supplier to be provided 
with a new laptop. I also understand that Mrs P was provided with a service whereby the 
supplier would set up the laptop, which involved removing it from its packaging whilst she 
was present.
Mrs P has made several points about the events which occurred when the laptop was set up 
for her – she asserts that her view was obstructed when it was removed from the packaging 
and that she was told that it had been customised but wasn’t told how.
I’m aware from what’s been provided that the supplier refutes Mrs P assertion that the laptop 
was not new – it says that the laptop was brand new and that the particular store Mrs P used 
does not sell anything other than new items of that type. It also seems that it doesn’t accept 
that it told Mrs P that the laptop had been customised and explained that sometimes it 
carries out the set-up process in anticipation of a sale.
I wasn’t present when Mrs P was supplied with the laptop, so I can’t say what was said for 
sure. However, I don’t think that Mrs P’s version of events is as persuasive as the supplier’s, 
and significantly, even if I were to accept what she’s said, I don’t think her assertions would 
necessarily lead me to believe that she’d been supplied with a second-hand laptop instead 
of a new one. I’ve also listened to the call Mrs P referred to, and I’m satisfied the supplier did 
not accept it had supplied a second-hand laptop. Overall, I’m not persuaded that there’s 
been a misrepresentation here.
It seems to me that Mrs P’s belief that she was supplied with a second-hand laptop in the 
most part stems from its failure, particularly because she’s under the impression that failure 
was due to it having an incompatible operating system. From what Mrs P has said, I 
understand she was told this by the supplier’s telephone IT support team. She also said that 
the laptop’s manufacturer said that if it’s the case, someone must have affected this prior to 
it being supplied to Mrs P, otherwise the laptop would have its original operating system.  
From what’s been said it seems that all parties accept that something went wrong with Mrs 
P’s laptop. I haven’t, however, been supplied with sufficient evidence to safely conclude 
exactly what went wrong with it. It also seems that the information Mrs P relied on in 
asserting the cause of the failure from the supplier’s IT team as well as the manufacturer, 
was provided to her without having inspected the device itself. 
Taking into account everything that’s been said, and the evidence provided, I have reason to 
doubt that the laptop was supplied with an incompatible operating system. I say this because 
it seems that the laptop worked correctly for a number of months before it became 
inoperable. I doubt that would’ve been possible if Mrs P’s assertion is correct. So, I’m not 
persuaded that’s what happened. Even if it had been the case though, I’m not persuaded 
that would necessarily indicate that the laptop supplied was a second-hand item.
Nonetheless, Creation is answerable for a complaint about the laptop’s quality, and I don’t 
think that a reasonable person would expect such an item to have gone wrong within five 
months. 
Under relevant legislation, Creation might have been required to repair the laptop if it could 
be established that its failure was as a result of it being of unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied, or not having been sufficiently durable. I’m not persuaded that was the case 
because I’ve not been presented with sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude exactly 
why it went wrong.
However, I’m aware that the supplier has said the laptop was repaired and is available for 
Mrs P to collect. So, even if I were to have accepted that, for example, the supplier had 
caused an incompatible operating to be installed on the laptop during its set-up process, or if 
I found the laptop hadn’t been sufficiently durable, I might have required Creation to carry 
out repairs. From everything that’s been said though, it seems the necessary repairs have 
already been carried out. I haven’t been presented with sufficient evidence to show that 
those repairs weren’t successful, so it seems that things have already been put right to the 
same extent that I would’ve required Creation to affect.
Overall, and for all of the reasons explained above, I’m not persuaded that there’s been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation here. So, I don’t require Creation to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4030130
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wrongly reported a number of hard 
searches on his credit file, and then took too long to remove them after he complained.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr S was shopping online for a new fridge freezer, on a website run by a 
third party. He applied to buy it on a buy now pay later agreement with Creation, and was 
told on the website and by email that he had been pre-approved for a credit limit of £3,500. 
During this online process, he was told that there would not be a hard credit search 
(meaning a search which is visible to other businesses on his credit file – as opposed to a 
soft search, which is still reported to a consumer’s credit file but is visible only to him).
The email told Mr S to take the email with him into the retailer’s store and to show it to the 
staff there. He did that later that day. Mr S describes the staff in store (the person who 
served him originally and also the managers Mr S spoke to later) as inept, and says that due 
to their incompetence they carried out at least two hard searches, which he later discovered 
had been recorded on his credit file for all to see. He was also told that he was only eligible 
for £500 of credit – which was not enough to buy what he wanted – instead of the limit he 
had been promised earlier.
Mr S complained to both the retailer and to Creation. Neither of them upheld his complaint. 
The retailer told him that it is possible for people to be pre-approved for credit before full 
(hard) credit checks have been carried out, only to have their application for credit declined 
after a full check; the retailer said it was not responsible for that. Creation told Mr S that a 
soft credit search is carried out at the pre-approval stage, but that a hard search is always 
necessary when an application is formally made (because lenders are required to check a 
customer’s creditworthiness). Creation said it was not responsible if the retailer’s staff had 
told Mr S something different in the store. Neither party addressed the complaint about 
multiple hard searches.
Being dissatisfied with those responses, Mr S brought this complaint against Creation to our 
service. Separately, he contacted the relevant credit reference agency about the hard 
searches, and that agency contacted Creation and asked Creation to stop reporting the hard 
searches. Creation agreed to do that (without conceding that it had been wrong to carry out 
a hard search), and also offered to pay Mr S £75 for his inconvenience. Mr S accepted that 
offer, but he subsequently learned that the hard searches were still being reported on his 
credit file. For that reason, this complaint was re-opened.
In February 2023, Creation again asked the credit reference agency to remove the hard 
searches from Mr S’s credit file.
Following all that, our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted that no hard 
search had been carried out a the pre-approval stage. She was satisfied that Creation had 
requested the removal of the hard searches done in the store, and that this was enough to 
fairly resolve this complaint. She did not think that the multiple hard searches were 
Creation’s fault (notwithstanding its offer of £75).
Mr S was not satisfied with that decision. He said that it had taken far too long for Creation to 
remove the hard searches, which it should have done in August. He provided an update 
from the credit reference agency which showed that some searches were still appearing on 
his credit file. He said the decision to decline him enough credit to pay for the fridge freezer 
meant that he was out of pocket. He asked for an ombudsman to review this case.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I am satisfied that the three relevant entries which are still appearing on Mr S’s credit file are 
soft searches, and that all of the hard searches have been removed. I have seen no 
evidence to the contrary. As a soft search was part of the normal process, these would still 
have happened if nothing had gone wrong in the store. Also, as I've said already, soft 
searches do not affect a credit score, as only Mr S can see them, so there is no detrimental 
effect on him by them still being there.
I have seen evidence that two hard searches were carried out in the store. The first hard 
search was part of the normal process, but it seems that nobody thought to tell Mr S that at 
the time. Creation provided some screenshots of what it said Mr S would have seen online, 
but the text appears to have been written as if it was intended to be read by the retailer, 
because instead of referring to the consumer as “you” it says “your customer.” So although 
that text does mention that a hard search will be carried out, Mr S would only have known 
that if the retailer’s staff had told him about it in the store. He says they didn’t.
It sounds to me that what happened in the store was a bit of a fiasco. I accept Mr S’s 
description of events, as I have no reason to doubt him, and also because his story is 
corroborated by the fact that two hard searches were carried out on the same occasion, and 
there would have been no reason for a second hard search if things had gone smoothly. 
I accept that that is the retailer’s fault, not Creation’s, but I do not agree that Creation is not 
responsible for what the retailer did. Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the 
retailer is treated as having acted as Creation’s agent, and so Creation is responsible for the 
retailer’s actions. So I have to consider what the consequences are of having not one but 
two hard searches recorded on Mr S’s credit file, and of not telling him that there was going 
to be a hard search.
If Mr S had been told in store that a hard search would have to be carried out before his 
credit limit of £3,500 could be approved, I’m sure he would have been annoyed by that 
(since he thought he had already been approved for it), but I think that he would probably still 
have agreed to it. That is because the alternative would have been that his application would 
definitely be declined. Unfortunately it was still declined anyway, but that is sometimes what 
happens when people apply for credit. Creation is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and 
so I am unable to uphold Mr S’s complaint that his application for a £3,500 credit limit was 
declined.
The second hard search ought not to have happened and, having happened, should have 
been removed from Mr S’s credit file. That may have affected his credit score, but I have not 
been told that Mr S applied for more credit and was declined during the period in which both 
searches were being reported. (And even if that did happen, I would be unable to conclude 
that the second hard search was the reason for it, because Mr S told our investigator that he 
also had a county court judgement recorded on his credit file at the time.)
However, the removal of both hard searches from Mr S’s credit file is more than I would have 
told Creation to do if Creation had done nothing yet. Mr S is now better off than he would 
have been if nothing had gone wrong in the store, because instead of one hard search on 
his credit file – the one that was always supposed to be there – he has none (none relating 
to this purchase anyway). Between that and the £75 compensation, I think that Creation has 
done enough to resolve this matter, and so for that reason I do not uphold the complaint 
about the hard searches.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4032089
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In October 2013, Mr H bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr H complained through a Claims Management Company (“CMC”) to Creation, he said that 
he was told by M, amongst other things, that the benefits of the system from income and 
savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, and so 
he’s suffered a financial loss since his loan repayments have exceeded the benefits he 
received. The CMC also said that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between him and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr H had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). It 
also said that the Financial Ombudsman Service did not have the power to look at the 
complaint, because it was made too late under the rules we must apply. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr H referred his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Mr H’s complaint, they ultimately thought that: 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr H and 
Creation, so the complaint should be upheld.

There was no need to assess the s.75 claim since this would not change the 
outcome. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr H keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr H had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was 
effectively self-funding. 
The CMC reiterated some of the points it had previously made. Creation did not respond. 
So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr H’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr H’s s.75 claim 
on 6 November 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr H brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 20 April 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr H. Here the credit relationship ended on 
30 September 2016. The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 20 
April 2020, which is less than six years later. So, the complaint has been brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Mr H has said that he was told by M’s representative that the benefits of the system from 
income and savings would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr H to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. There is not. 
The credit agreement set out what he had agreed to pay, but none of the documents show 
the estimated benefits through income and savings. 
So, I find what Mr H has said is believable. I don’t think he would’ve purchased the system 
without some idea of the benefits of doing so. Given the contract doesn’t contain information 
about the benefits, Mr H would have looked to M’s representative to help him understand 
how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit 
from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In September 2014, it determined that M was in breach 
of a number of sections of the code including sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate 
to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and 
providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
Whilst I accept that the above are findings on different cases the RECC looked at, the 
findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr H’s 
complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr H’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr H left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £134, payable for ten years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, I find Mr H’s account of what he was told by M is both plausible 
and persuasive. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of more than £1,600 per year. Given how much electricity his system 
produced, I do not think it is at all likely that it would’ve generated sufficient benefits to cover 
the loan repayments – neither on a monthly basis nor within the loan term. So, these 
statements were not true.
I think M’s representative ought reasonably to have been aware that Mr H’s system would 
not have produced benefits at the required level to make the system self-funding within the 
loan term. They ought to have had sufficient information and expertise available to them in 
order to accurately calculate the estimated benefits. 
Considering Mr H’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr 
H a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr H was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr H went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr H’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr H in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mr H and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would not 
otherwise have taken out.
The s.75 complaint  
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Miss B’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome 
in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr H and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr H a sum that results in the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of M’s 
assurances. That is, that Mr H’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the original loan term of ten years. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr H received from the system over the original 
ten-year term of the loan, so Mr H pays no more than that. 
To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr H received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr H will need to supply up to date details, 
where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to 
Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr H’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe caused Mr H some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this Creation 
should also pay Mr H additional compensation as set out below.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr H’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr H has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr H’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr H should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr H 

Pay Mr H £100 additional compensation
*Where Mr H is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should complete the calculations using known 
and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4036070
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
has dealt with a claim they made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s.75”). 
What happened
In September 2013, Mr and Mrs S entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system 
from a supplier. They paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement, which they paid 
off in 2016.
Mr and Mrs S wrote to Creation in July 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of 
s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The 
creditor (Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mr and Mrs S’s claim explained that the system had been misrepresented to them. They had 
been told that the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) payments they’d receive for electricity generated and 
exported to the grid would cover the loan repayments, making the system entirely self-
funding.  
Creation responded to say it had no liability, since the claim had been made outside of the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. In this case, Creation said the claim had been 
made more than six years after the alleged misrepresentation had taken place. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint and referred the matter 
to this Service to look into. One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that 
Creation had not acted unfairly by rejecting Mr and Mrs S’s s.75 claim. In summary, our 
investigator said that Mr and Mrs S’s claim against the supplier of the system was made 
outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act. As Creation (as the credit provider) is 
liable to the same extent as the supplier, our adjudicator agreed it had acted reasonably 
when saying the ‘like claim’ against it was made too late. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They didn’t realise they’d been mis-sold the system until several 
years later when they checked their FIT statements and discovered they were less than they 
had expected.
Since our adjudicator could not resolve the complaint, I’ve been asked to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation has treated Mr and Mrs S fairly in its 
response to their s.75 claim. There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when 
reaching my decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of 
Mr and Mrs S’s complaint. In this decision I’ll refer to those that I consider to be most central 
to my conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr and Mrs S’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As I’ve explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation and it can 
be held responsible for a purchase Mr and Mrs S made using their credit card. I’m satisfied 
in this instance that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hadn’t been broken and there’s an 
appropriate relationship between the parties for Creation to consider a s.75 claim. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation must have treated Mr and Mrs S fairly when it declined their s.75 claim. And as 
the reason Creation gave for declining Mr and Mrs S’s claim was that it was made outside of 
the relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr and Mrs S’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 
are on the same basis of those they could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs S says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
inducement that made them make the purchase. But their s.75 claim is largely that those 
benefits were misrepresented and so they entered a contract which wasn’t the value for 
money they expected. Mr and Mrs S say that, were it not for the misrepresentation about the 
potential benefits, then they wouldn’t have entered the contract to purchase the system at 
all. 
So, Mr and Mrs S’s financial loss occurred when they contracted to pay for the system using 
a fixed sum loan agreement on 28 September 2013. They had six years from that date to 
make their claim. 
Mr and Mrs S raised their claim with Creation in July 2022. This is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and their cause of action accrued. So, the claim was not made 
in time, and neither the supplier nor Creation would have any liability, even if there was a 
misrepresentation. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.” 
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Mr and Mrs S’s claim against Creation is 
under s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s 
misrepresentation or breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of 
M. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. So, the claim was 
still not made in time. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr and Mrs S’s claim as I’ve already explained they 
raised their complaint with Creation over six years from when the contract was entered, and 
damage suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance I’ve considered when Mr and Mrs S 
knew, or ought to have known, that they had a claim for misrepresentation against M. 
Mr and Mrs S would’ve been sent quarterly FIT statements showing how much they were 
being paid for the electricity generated and exported to the grid. I think they ought to have 
known this was not covering the loan repayment upon receipt of those statements – at the 
latest when they’d received four quarterly statements. This would cover a full year, which 
they could easily compare to 12 months of loan repayments. 
So, I think they had both the knowledge and right to bring a claim for damages by early 2015 
at the latest. And this would not extend the time in which they could make a claim – which 
was six years from the date of sale. So, they had to claim by 28 September 2019 at the 
latest. But the claim was not made until July 2022.
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Creation has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr and Mrs S’s s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide 
whether or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Creation) has expired under 
the Limitation Act. But, given the information available, I’m satisfied Creation has applied the 
rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
I’ve not seen any evidence to show Mr and Mrs S were unable to make a claim within time, 
and so I cannot fairly ask Creation to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold Mr and Mrs S’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4036485
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs D has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mrs A has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer 
to Mrs A throughout.
What happened
On 6 June 2013, Mrs D signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mrs D complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t 
happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs D also believed that what happened at 
the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
Mrs A complained to Creation on 21 June 2022. When she received no response Mrs D 
brought her complaint to this service on 30 August 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 9 September 2022. Creation considered Mrs D had brought her claim more 
than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Mrs D asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs D’s complaint and ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs D and 
Creation. 
On 28 February 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs D keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs D had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs D accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 20 March 2023 that they were 
consulting an external legal team. But we received no response to the arguments made in 
the assessment. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an 
Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that Creation have now had over a year to respond to 
the investigator’s findings had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs D’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs D’s s.75 
claim on 9 September 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs D brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on30 
August 2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs D. Here the relationship 
was still intact at the time Creation sent their business file to us in 2022. That submission 
showed that Mrs D was still making her payments in September 2022. So, the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 6 June 2013. Mrs D brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
on 21 June 2022, that is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with 
them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the 
s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
D. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs D has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs D has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs D to see if there was anything contained 
within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs D on 6 June 2013, sets out Mrs D’s responsibilities for 
repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Mrs D’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs D to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs D would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In June 2014, and later in December 2014, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and 
accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. The findings were 
deemed to be serious enough that the company’s membership of the RECC was 
terminated. 
Whilst I accept that the above are findings based on cases that the RECC were looking at, 
and different to this case, yet the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in 
the areas that relate to Mrs D’s complaint around the time that she was sold her system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs D said happened. Yet with no 
meaningful prior interest, Mrs D left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of around £154 payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs D’s account of what she was told 
by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I 
can’t see why she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given 
the reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs D’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,848 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs D’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs D’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. 
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs D’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs D’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs D.
Considering Mrs D’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs D a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs D’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs D was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs D went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs D’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs D in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs D and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs D and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs D a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs D’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs D received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs D received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs D may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mrs D made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mrs D’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs D should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs D. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs D
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs D’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024. 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4039173
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has dealt 
with a claim he made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2014, Mr H entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system (“the system”) 
from a supplier. He paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation, 
which was repayable over ten years. However, Mr H paid off the loan on 23 June 2014.
Mr H wrote to Creation in August 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to 
provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor 
(Creation) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier – subject to certain considerations being met.
Mr H’s claim explained that he’d purchased the system on the understanding that it would 
pay for itself through the feed-in tariff (“FIT”) payments he’d received for the electricity 
generated and exported to the grid, which would cover the monthly loan repayments. 
Creation didn’t respond to the claim and Mr H then contacted the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to complain.
Our adjudicator looked into this, including under section 140 (“s140”) of the Consumer Credit 
Act, since Mr H as a consumer was unlikely to know about this . She concluded that Mr H 
had made his claim too late under the time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. Because 
of this he was too late to make a claim under s.75 and s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
And so, neither the supplier, nor Creation would have any liability if the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or his relationship with Creation was unfair on him. 
Mr H didn’t accept this and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that because the claim was made outside of the 
time limits under the Limitation Act, I was not planning to uphold the complaint. 
Creation responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision. No response was received 
from the CMC or Mr H by the deadline given in my provisional decision. So, this final 
decision is in line with what I said previously.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m not upholding this complaint – and I’ll explain why.
In this complaint I’m considering whether Creation should do anything more with regards to 
Mr H’s s.75 claim. I’ve also considered whether a claim under s.140 was made in time, since 
a misrepresentation could potentially create an unfair relationship between Creation and 
Mr H, and I wouldn’t expect Mr H to be aware he could make such a claim.
There are a number of things I’ve taken account of when reaching my decision, including the 
law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of Mr H’s complaint. In this decision 
I’ll refer to those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
Relevant considerations 
Mr H’s complaint is about a claim under s.75 and s.140 and so naturally the appropriate 
parts of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here.
s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Creation, and it can be held responsible for a 
purchase Mr H made using his credit card.
s.140 would allow the courts to consider if the relationship between Creation and Mr H was 
unfair on him. And would take into account the supplier’s actions when selling the system to 
him, since when doing so the supplier would be deemed to have acted as Creation’s agent.
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the “FCA”). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states:
“A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly”. 
So, Creation should have treated Mr H fairly when it didn’t uphold his claim. The Limitation 
Act is also important, since Creation would have no liability if the claim was made outside of 
the time limits that sets out.
The Limitation Act 1980
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr H’s rights to claim against Creation under s.75 and are 
on the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are:

Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law – which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 

Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute.

Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim.
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, “An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued”.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr H says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
misrepresented to him and if that hadn’t happened, then he wouldn’t have entered the 
contract to purchase the system.
So, Mr H’s financial loss occurred when he agreed to buy the system using a fixed sum loan 
agreement in April 2014. So, he had until April 2020 to make a claim for misrepresentation.
Mr H raised his claim with Creation in August 2022 which is more than six years from when 
the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. So this claim was made outside of 
the time limits in the Limitation Act, and Creation would have no liability for any 
misrepresentation made by the supplier.
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, “An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued.”
I’ve considered this section because the basis of Mr H’s claim against Creation is under s.75 
and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament).
But I don’t think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in the Limitation 
Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a supplier’s misrepresentation or 
breach of contract – effectively making Creation step into the shoes of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract – and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made in some circumstances. That is, if 
later than the six-year period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had 
both the knowledge required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a 
claim.
In this case Mr H says he was told the FIT payments would cover the monthly loan 
repayments and as such the system would pay for itself. I think Mr H would’ve had the 
knowledge to bring his claim after he’d received one year’s worth of FIT statements. This 
would’ve allowed him to compare one year’s FIT payments with one year’s loan repayments 
to see if the FIT payments covered the monthly loan repayments. This would’ve been in 
2015, so s.14A would only have allowed Mr H until 2018 to make the claim, and that doesn’t 
extend the six years he had under other sections of the Limitation Act mentioned above.
s.140 limitation period
s.140 would allow the courts to look at the relationship between Creation and Mr H to see if it 
was unfair on him. And the limitation period allows for six years from the end of that 
relationship – in this case the loan agreement, which ended in June 2014. That would mean 
Mr H would have to make a claim under s.140 by June 2020. But he didn’t make his claim 
until 2022. So, Creation would have no liability even if its relationship with Mr H was unfair 
on him (which I haven’t assessed).
Summary
Mr H appears to have made his claim outside of the time allowed under the Limitation Act. 
As such neither the supplier nor Creation would have any liability under s.75 or s.140 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. So, I don’t think Creation needs to do anything further in terms of his 
complaint about the system being misrepresented to him.
Mr H has mentioned some issues with part of the system not working properly. If he thinks 
they ought to be covered by a guarantee or warranty provided by the supplier, which is no 
longer in business, he should contact Creation to see if it can help. In regards to the inverter, 
which was repaired in 2019, if Mr H is unhappy with how that was dealt with he may be able 
to make a complaint about that separately.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4039270
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss P has complained that a Mini she acquired, using finance from Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd, wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
On 7 September 2021, Miss P entered into a finance agreement with Creation. This was for 
a Mini, that was around nine and a half months old, and had 85,000 miles on the clock.
Unfortunately, Miss P had to contact the dealership on 28 February 2022, to explain the car 
wouldn’t start. She said she’d have an independent check carried out, so there’d be no need 
for the dealership to collect the car to do a check. The dealership said this was fine. But it  
later said it wouldn’t help further, as it had been Miss P’s father who had carried out a 
diagnostic check, and he’s not a qualified mechanic.
So, on 8 March 2022, Miss P complained to Creation. Then, on 22 March, she took the car 
to a third party garage. Its diagnostic report said the cams weren’t moving and the engine 
wasn’t turning. It put this down to a likely timing chain failure.
As Miss P didn’t receive a response from Creation, she complained to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he didn’t think the 
complaint should be upheld. This was because he thought that, given the age and mileage 
of the car, it was reasonable to expect that there would be wear and tear. He considered the 
issues to have been caused by reasonable wear and tear, commensurate with the age and 
mileage of the car.
Miss P was unhappy with this, so her complaint was passed to me to consider afresh. I was 
minded to uphold it, so I issued a provisional decision, to explain why and give both parties 
the opportunity to respond with anything further. I said as follows.
-
Typically, I may well agree that a timing chain failure is reasonable wear and tear. As cars 
age, they need to be maintained, including repairing/replacing serviceable parts. However, 
there is a crucial difference here. A call to Mini UK customer service has confirmed that the 
timing chain for this make of car doesn’t have a service life, and no maintenance of the chain 
itself is required.
Accordingly, I’m satisfied this means that its failure can't reasonably be attributed to wear 
and tear - as it is supposed to last for the lifetime of the car. So it follows that the car wasn't 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, as it had an inherent defect.
I note that since the complaint has been brought to us, the car passed an MOT in September  
2022 - so presumably the repairs have been carried out. I ask Miss P to confirm this and 
provide an invoice/receipt, detailing the works carried out and the cost. If indeed the car has 
been repaired, I assume Miss P wants to keep it. Again, I’d ask her to confirm this.
To put things right, I’m minded to require Creation to refund Miss P’s repayments in full, from 
the time the car broke down, to the time it was repaired. I’m also minded to require it to pay 
for the repairs, insofar as they relate to the timing chain and issues caused as a result of its 
failure. 
Given the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss P by Creation’s handling of the 
complaint, I consider £250 compensation fair to reflect this aspect of the complaint.
As a final point, I note that Miss P’s father having a look at the car has no bearing on the 
outcome of the complaint. There’s no evidence whatsoever that he caused any damage to it.
It’s my provisional decision to uphold this complaint, and require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to:

refund Miss P’s repayments in full, from the time the car broke down, to the time it 
was repaired, adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date of each repayment to 
the date of settlement;

pay for the repairs, insofar as they relate to the timing chain and issues caused as a 
result of its failure, adding 8% simple interest a year, from the date Miss P paid for 
the repairs to the date of settlement; and

pay Miss P £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
-
Miss P responded by providing an invoice for £10,286.08 (including VAT), dated 20 
September 2022. 
Creation responded with a screenshot from an autocentre chain’s website, saying a timing 
chain should be replaced after 80,000 – 120,000  miles. It also provided a screenshot from 
an online manual for DIY mechanics, recommending that a timing belt should be replaced 
every 60,000 miles, or five years. It goes on to say that the Mini recommendation is 125,000 
miles, but that it recommends 60,000.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not departing from my provisional decision.
I think that the information given to this service by Mini UK customer service – specifically, 
that the timing chain for this make of car doesn’t have a service life, and no maintenance of 
the chain itself is required – carries more weight that the information provided by Creation. 
This is because it comes directly from the specialist. I also note that the information set out 
in the DIY manual relates to a timing belt, not a timing chain. Miss P’s car has a timing chain. 
Although both perform the same function, a belt is made of rubber, whereas a chain is metal.
On the basis of the evidence from Mini UK, which I find persuasive, I’m satisfied, for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision, that the timing chain had an inherent defect, so 
was not of satisfactory quality.
Accordingly, Creation should refund Miss P’s repayments while she was without the car, and 
pay for the repairs. I note that £4,525 (plus applicable VAT) of the invoice relates to the car 
being stored at the recovery garage. As I said in my provisional decision, I thought Creation 
should pay for the repairs. This doesn’t include the storage sum, as Miss P was under a duty 
to mitigate her losses. I’m not satisfied that it was necessary for the car to be stored, 
incurring this high cost.
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should: 
(a) refund Miss P’s repayments in full, from the date the car broke down (28 February 
2022), to the date it was repaired (20 September 2022), adding 8% simple interest a 
year, from the date of each repayment to the date of settlement; 
(b) refund Miss P the garage’s bill, insofar as it relates to the timing chain and issues 
caused as a result of its failure – adding 8% simple interest a year. For the avoidance 
of doubt, this sum would be:

the cost of all of the repair work, including sourcing parts, set out in the invoice dated 
20 September 2022, plus applicable VAT;

the cost of recovery as set out in this invoice, plus applicable VAT; and

the cost of diagnostics as set out in this invoice, plus applicable VAT.
Interest at 8% simple a year should be added to the resulting total, from 20 September 
2022, to the date of settlement.
(c) pay Miss P £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
It’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
take the steps set out above, in the section ‘Putting things right’.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4039671
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) 
responded to a claim she made under s75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”) and 
in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account s140A of the CCA.
What happened
In January 2014, Mrs G bought a solar panel system from a company I’ll call “M” using a 10-
year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
The price of the panels was £7,495 and this plus the additional costs of the loan (interest of 
£4,205.60 and an arrangement fee of £135) made the total amount payable £11,835.60.
Mrs G via her representatives sent a letter before claim to Creation on 2 March 2020 to 
propose claims under s.75 for breach of contract and misrepresentation by M and arising out 
of an unfair relationship under s.140A of the CCA. She said she was led to believe the 
electricity savings and FIT payment income from the panels would cover the costs of the 
loan she’d taken out but in fact, there was a shortfall between the cost of the loan payments 
and the benefits, causing her a financial loss.
Mrs G said she had not been made aware that Creation had been paid commission on the 
sale, Creation had failed to ensure P observed the relevant codes at the time of sale, and 
insufficient checks had been carried out to make sure she could afford the repayments on 
the loan.
In response to Ms G’s letter before claim Creation sent a final response letter dated 6 March  
2020 and treating the matter as a complaint. Creation declined to take further action on the 
basis that it considered Mrs G had brought her claim more than six years after it believed her 
cause of action had arisen. 
Dissatisfied with Creation’s response Ms T referred a complaint to our service about the s.75 
claim and the alleged unfair relationship under s.140A on 23 March 2020.
An investigator thought Mrs G’s complaint should be upheld. He said that as Mrs G had 
brought her complaint about Creation’s handling of her s.75 claim to us within six years of it 
declining to meet that claim on 6 March 2020, she had brought it in time under our rules. 
However, given his view that the matters giving rise to the s.75 claim took place around the 
time the agreement was entered into during January 2014 he considered it was likely that 
the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the ‘LA’) meant that Mrs G did not have a valid 
claim against M and therefore no like claim against Creation under s.75. So, he didn’t think 
Creation had treated Mrs G unfairly by declining her s.75 claim.  
However, he thought that Ms G’s complaint about Creation’s participation in an allegedly 
unfair relationship per s.140A was made in time where Ms G’s loan agreement with Creation 
was ongoing.
The investigator went on to conclude that that the benefits of the panels had likely been 
misrepresented to Mrs G at the time of the sale and those misrepresentations had created 
an unfair relationship.  He recommended that Creation should recalculate the loan and 
ensure that Mrs G paid no more than the likely benefits she would receive over the loan 
period.  
The investigator recommended that Creation should calculate the benefits from the panels 
over 10 years (the period of the loan) and ensure that Mrs G paid no more than that.  He 
also recommended that Creation pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not addressing her claim made under s.140 of the CCA. 
Mrs G accepted the investigator’s view. Creation said it was seeking further guidance and 
asked for an extension, however we did not hear from it by the deadline we set it to respond. 
So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.
While awaiting an ombudsman’s decision Mrs G said she repaid the loan in full in October 
2023 having moved house.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs G’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs G’s s.75 claim 
on 6 March 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs G 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 23 March 2020. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continued, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs G. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 23 March 2020, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract from when the cause of action arose, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach of contract cause of action 
arose when an agreement was entered into in January 2014. Mrs G brought her s.75 claim 
to Creation on 2 March 2020 which is more than six years after she entered into an 
agreement with it. 
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of the likely 
relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and reasonable for 
Creation to decline the s.75 claim.  So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
The unfair relationship complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs G.
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether the 
relationship with Creation would likely be unfair under s.140A.
Mrs G has said she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be fully 
paid for by the FIT payments she would receive. Mrs G said she was reassured by M’s 
representative that she would “have excess money each month”.
Mrs G has said she had no interest in solar panels until she was cold called by M about the 
system, I haven’t seen anything within the available evidence to suggest otherwise. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs G to see if there was anything contained 
within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
Mrs G provided us a document called ‘your system explained’. This set out that the year 1 
benefit of the panels would be £1,183.56 – the exact sum of Mrs G annual repayments on 
her loan. It also said the system monthly cost would be £98.63 of which Mrs G’s contribution 
would be “0”.  
This document is neither dated nor personally addressed to Mrs G. And it was provided to 
this service nearly two years after Mrs G brought her claim and was not provided in either 
her original submissions to us or in her letter before claim to Creation. Given how the 
document, if legitimate, could provide considerable support to Mrs G’s complaint, I find it 
surprising it was not provided earlier. On the other hand, I’ve noted that Creation has not 
sought to challenge the document. I’ve kept all of this in mind when considering how much 
weight I should attach to this document. 
Mrs G’s loan agreement clearly sets out, amongst other things, the amount being borrowed, 
the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the sales contract with M. The likely financial benefits of the system aren’t 
included on this document. There is a box entitled ‘calculating a SAP calculation’ but this 
hasn’t been filled out. 
Overall, if I am (for the moment) to discount the ‘your system explained’ document it seems 
that there was no clear information within the available paperwork provided at the time of the 
sale that would have allowed Mrs G to compare the estimated benefits of the solar panels 
with the total costs of the loan.  
I find it likely therefore that Mrs G would have looked to M’s representative to help her 
understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much she 
would benefit from the system.
I’ve looked at an archived version of M’s website from around the time of the sale in 2014.  It 
is mentioned several times on the website that the solar panels will “bring long term financial 
benefits by earning you money for years to come”. I think it follows that if the website heavily 
emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the profit and return on the investment 
it’s likely this would have been a central part of M’s conversation when selling the product.
Given Mrs G’s apparent prior lack of interest in solar panels, and the long-term financial 
burden it appears likely she’d need to take on, I can’t see why she would have seen this 
purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances about those benefits she said 
she received from M. I’m conscious also that Creation has not supplied any evidence or 
reasoning to challenge Mrs G’s account, or the documentation supplied. 
I think it is unlikely that Mrs G would’ve agreed to the solar panel system and a loan with 
Creation unless she’d been led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no 
additional cost to her overall. Therefore, I consider Mrs G’s account persuasive and I accept 
her version of events. If I am to give any significant weight to the ‘your system explained’ 
document, this provides further support for this conclusion as it effectively confirms the 
system would be self-funding, but even without this document my conclusion remains the 
same. 
For the solar panels to start paying for themselves as Mrs G says she was told, they would 
need to cover the costs of the loan and produce combined savings and fit income of over 
£1,183.56 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs G’s system was not performing 
as expected but it has not produced this. So, these statements were not true. 
I think the salesman from M must reasonably have been aware that Mrs G’s system would 
not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of a calculation of 
benefits that had to be estimated, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs G’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of her panels in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs G. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits which Mrs G was expected to receive by agreeing to installation 
of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a contractual 
promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments.  
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mrs G went into the transaction. Either way, M’s assurances were seriously misleading and 
false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs G’s point of view.   
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs G in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded it’s likely the relationship between Mrs G and Creation would be found unfair.
Because of the shortfall between Mrs G’s costs and the actual benefits each month, she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out.
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs G and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs G a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs G’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs G received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs G received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs 
G will need to supply up to date details, where available, of FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
I am satisfied that if Mrs G is able to supply information to Creation which covers the last six 
years this will be sufficient in order for Creation to complete the calculation relying on that 
information. 
If Mrs G cannot provide information covering the last six years – such as where the 
electricity company has gone out of business – Creation should seek to complete the 
calculation using reasonably assumed benefits.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to address Mrs G’s other 
complaint points about irresponsible lending and commission. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop 
me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs G some 
further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator 
is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mrs G’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (any deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs G made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date she repaid it – A

Use Mrs G’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the known and reasonably 
assumed benefits she received up until when she repaid the loan* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs G should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually repaid (A), and 
what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple interest per year to any overpayment 
from the date of each payment until the date of settlement of her complaint** – C

Use Mrs G’s bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the known and 
reasonably assumed benefits she received for the period between the loan being 
paid off and the end of original loan term* – D

Deduct D from the sum Mrs G paid to settle the loan in October 2023 – E

Add 8% simple annual interest** to E from the date Mrs G paid off the loan until the 
date of settlement - F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and meter 
readings Creation should pay Mrs G C + F

Pay Mrs G £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
* If Mrs G is able to supply information to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd which covers 
the last six years this will be sufficient in order for Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
complete the calculation relying on that information. 
If Mrs G cannot provide information covering the last six years – such as where the 
electricity company has gone out of business – Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
seek to complete the calculation using reasonably assumed benefits.
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much tax it’s 
taken off. It should also give Mrs G a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2024.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4039728
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim he’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”) and in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 
140A (s140A) of the CCA.
Mr B has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr B throughout.
What happened
In August 2013 Mr B entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,820 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount payable under the 
agreement was £15,442.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments 
of £128.69.
Creation has explained Mr B settled the loan agreement on 28 September 2016.
On 22 November 2019 Mr B sent a letter of complaint to Creation explaining that he
considered he had a valid claim against it under s75 due to misrepresentation and breach 
of contract by P, and also claimed there had been an unfair relationship under s140A. Mr 
B said he’d been cold called and told he could be entitled to a solar panel system at no 
cost to him. He says he was told the system would be fully self-funding, and so he agreed 
to a sales meeting. 
In summary, Mr B says:

P’s representative misled him the total cost of the system was £9,820 when the
actual cost of the system including interest was £15,442.80.

P promised him a tax-free, year-1 benefit of £1,544.28 from Feed in Tariff (FIT)
payments, whereas after making the loan repayments there was a deficit of around
£980 per year.

P told him the FIT payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments.

He would not have entered into the agreement if he knew he’d have to pay around 
£980 per year towards it for 10 years.

Many other customers of P have stated similar, if not identical experiences.

He was pressured into signing the agreement. P’s representative spent two hours 
at his home.

P said this was a government backed scheme to reduce solar emissions and reach
carbon targets.

P told him the government would subsidise any shortfall.

P told him the inverter would be under warranty for 10 years.

P didn’t tell him the performance of the system would deteriorate over the years.

He was induced into the agreement by false statements from P. He wouldn’t have
entered into the agreement had it not been for those statements.
On the basis of the above Mr B said he had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. He also said section 56 (s56) of the CCA 
deemed P the agent of Creation when carrying out antecedent negotiations, and that the 
relationship between Creation and him was also unfair under s140A because either 
Creation or P:

Failed to assess Mr B’s creditworthiness.

Didn’t act honestly, fairly and professionally with his best interests in mind.

Didn’t disclose payment of any commission and/or inducements paid and/or
received.

Didn’t provide a cooling off period.

Didn’t notify Mr B of his cancellation rights.

Didn’t comply with the Renewable Energy Consumer Code.
To resolve the claim and complaint, Mr B requested:

A refund of all sums paid for the system.

The agreement is ended.

A refund of any commission.

8% simple annual interest on the above amounts.
Creation sent a final response letter on 25 November 2019 rejecting Mr B’s complaint on 
the basis it was made out of time based on their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. 
Creation did not comment on the s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of contract nor 
the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response.
Mr B wasn’t happy with the response to the complaint so decided to refer it to our service 
on 2 December 2019.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the ‘LA’) such that it had no liability to Mr B. It also considered the complaint to 
be out of our jurisdiction to consider due to the limitation period under the LA having 
expired. Creation did not comment on the s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of 
contract nor the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 2 December 
2019 which is the date when Mr B’s representative sent details of his complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr B’s s75 and s140A
complaints, before turning to the merits of those complaints.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr B’s s75
claim on 25 November 2019. Mr B brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman
service on 2 December 2019. So, his complaint in relation to the s75 claim was brought in
time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr B’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Mr B is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship ended on 28 September 2016 and the complaint in
relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service on 2 December 2019. So, the
s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event complained of and
has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about the alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into during August 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that P (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 22 November 2019, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against P for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around December 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by P can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming P to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations P carried out direct with Mr B.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider P’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Mr B.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Mr B and P.
Mr B told us he was cold called and informed he could be entitled to have a Solar System 
at absolutely no cost to him. Mr B told us he agreed for a sales representative to visit to 
discuss this in more detail. In summary, Mr B said P’s salesperson came to visit him and 
told him he would be paid by the electricity company because he would sell electricity to it. 
Mr B said the salesperson stayed for two hours and said that the paperwork needed to be 
completed during the visit. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Mr B’s allegation he was told it would be self-funding. I’ve been
supplied a sales brochure that P gave Mr B. That sales document from P sets out when 
discussing funding options:
“Finance over 10 years. The unique self funding scheme means the FIT covers the
monthly loan repayments. You will never be out of pocket.”
The brochure also seems to indicate the customer could benefit from a tax-free return of 
between 8% to 15% per annum. Although I should point out the brochure refers to a 
different finance company to Creation.
So, this evidence clearly supports Mr B’s testimony that P told him the scheme would be 
self-funding. 
Mr B has also supplied a copy of the Standard Assessment Procedure (SAP)
Calculations and 1st Year Returns form. This sets out that the total benefit for Mr B
based on Generations Earnings + Electricity Savings + Export Earnings equalled
£1712.93. Given his monthly repayments towards the agreement were £128.69 this 
document also supports Mr B’s testimony that he was told the scheme would be self-
funding. 
I have also considered the customer satisfaction note that Mr B provided. This shows a 
decreased estimate of the likely performance of the solar panels and an estimated first 
year savings of only £722. This document does not support the idea that the scheme 
would be self-funding. But the document does not explicitly explain that the figures 
suggest the scheme would not be self-funding. The consumer would have had to closely 
read the document and work that out for themselves. And the consumer would have had 
do that and make further enquiries to see if the first year figures this document provides 
an estimate for would be repeated in subsequent years. 
I have not been given any evidence that shows me how this document was intended to be 
used or how P would have put its contents to Mr B. And I have noted that this document 
has a box for the customer’s signature and the box is unsigned. So, it’s not clear to me 
that Mr B did closely read the document or was supported in so doing during the meeting, 
as the representative did not get Mr B to sign the document. And it’s not clear whether this 
was provided at the time the loan agreement was completed or after the installation. 
However, even had Mr B read the document I also believe that the significance of the 
figures has not been sufficiently highlighted in the document. And in choosing to provide 
important information in the way they did, I think P ran the risk that a consumer might miss 
this important detail. And it seems risk came to pass in this complaint, possibly due to the 
assurances provided in the other contemporaneous documentation. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I consider that the customer 
satisfaction note is the only document that does not suggest that the scheme is self-
funding and that does not sufficiently highlight that risk to undermine the weight of the 
other documents that explicitly suggest the scheme is self-funding. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr B had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before P contacted him. Mr B has said he only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr B would have agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly 
outgoings would increase significantly.
Mr B told us that the salesperson told him the income from the solar panel system would 
pay off the agreement. So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, I 
have seen insufficient evidence that undermines that testimony. On balance, I find Mr B’s 
account to be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,550 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Mr B’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
he’s achieved this benefit. For the year’s FIT statements I’ve seen (from 27 September 
2013 to 8 September 2019) he received a little over £500 a year. I’ve not been supplied
copies of Mr B’s electricity bills, so I don’t know what savings he made. But based on
what I have seen and taking into account the SAP calculations that I’ve referred to
above, I think it’s more likely than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Mr B made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely P gave Mr B a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Mr B was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr B went into the transaction. Either
way, P’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Mr B’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr B in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Mr B and Creation to have been unfair.
Mr B has had to pay more than he expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Mr B otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Mr B fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr B and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr B a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr B’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr B received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr B received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr B may need to supply up to date
details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to
Creation. Creation can use assumptions when information is not available – if, for
example, the electricity company has gone out of business. 
Creation has explained Mr B settled the loan agreement on 28 September 2016.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr B made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr B’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr B should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr B paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr B paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mr B C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr B
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr B’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4039810
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr T has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr T throughout.
What happened
On 17 March 2015, Mr T bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The loan was for nearly £10,000 
and the monthly repayments were roughly £130 for 120 months.
Mr T complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments, 
however that hasn’t happened, and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that 
what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and 
Creation. 
Mr T raised his complaint to Creation on 28 July 2022. Creation issued a final response 
letter dated 28 July 2022. Creation considered Mr T had brought his claim more than six 
years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and 
later Creation said the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Mr T asked us to review his complaint. Mr T brought his complaint to 
this service on 10 October 2022. 
An investigator considered Mr T’s complaint, she ultimately thought that – 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr T and 
Creation. 
On 9 February 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr T keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mr T had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, 
and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr T accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 17 February 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension to the 17 March 2023. Creation 
did not respond to the investigator’s findings by 17 March 2023. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further submissions had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr T’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr T’s s.75 claim 
on 28 July 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr T 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 10 October 2022. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr T. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 10 October 2022, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 17 March 2015. Mr T brought his s.75 claim to Creation 
on 28 July 2022, that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with them. 
Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 
claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
T. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr T has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr T has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided from the time Mr T signed the credit agreement to 
see if there was anything contained within them that made it clear to Mr T that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. The loan agreement, signed by Mr T on 17 March 
2015, sets out Mr T’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of 
that. Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar 
panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr T’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr T to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr T would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr T said happened. And with no prior 
interest, Mr T left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £130, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on, and in the absence of any evidence from Creation to the 
contrary, I find Mr T’s account of what he was told by M to be credible and persuasive. In 
saying that I have noted that Mr T told us that at the time of the sale he was sole earner, 
that his earned income was modest and that he had four children under the age of 13. The 
loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr T’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that part of the assessment. 
I have noted the Energy Performance Certificate dated 25 March 2015 that Mr T has 
supplied. I don’t know how this document was positioned with Mr T. And whilst I note that 
it includes details of savings Mr T might make over three years, it also includes potential 
energy costs over that same period. I do not think that this document sufficiently highlights 
the real likelihood that the loan would not be self funding. And, in any event, this document 
is dated after the date that Mr T signed a credit agreement for the goods. His decision 
would have been made on information he had at that time. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,560 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr T’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that. And 
Mr T’s testimony and the evidence he has supplied suggest that the solar panel system 
failed to generate anything close to the sort of income required to meet Mr T’s loan 
repayments.
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr T’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr T’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr T.
Considering Mr T’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr T a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr T’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr T was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr T went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr T’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr T in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr T and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr T and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr T a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr T’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr T received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr T received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr T may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
T has sold the house and does not have access to much documentation from before this. 
Mr T told us that the loan is still running. 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Mr T made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Mr T’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received and he would have received over the 10 
year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr T should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of his 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mr T. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr T
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr T’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4040419
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr K has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In August 2013, Mr K bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “M” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr K complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, and 
he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the sale 
created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation responded to the complaint in its final response, it considered Mr K had brought his 
claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator considered Mr K’s complaint, she ultimately thought that – 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr K and 
Creation. 
She recommended that Mr K keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr K had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. 
Mr K accepted the investigator’s view. Creation said it was seeking external legal counsel 
and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from it. So, the case was progressed 
to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My findings on jurisdiction
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr K’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr K’s s.75 claim on 
29 April 2020, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr K 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 28 May 2020. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr K. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 28 May 2020, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 26 August 2013. Mr K brought his s.75 claim to Creation 
on 18 November 2019 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement with it. 
Given this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. 
So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr K has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive. Mr K said he was reassured by M’s 
representative that this was a government backed scheme to ensure carbon targets were 
reached. That a government subsidy would be paid in addition to meet any shortfalls against 
the loan cost.
Mr K has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing solar panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr K to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
I don’t have a copy of the loan agreement, we’ve asked Creation to provide this multiple 
times however it’s not done so. Mr K has provided a loan statement and a Creation welcome 
letter, looking at these documents I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr K’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. Given I don’t have a copy of the agreement I’m not able to 
say with certainty if the total amount payable, and the monthly cost of the loan were clear to 
Mr K.  
I’ve considered the contract signed by Mr K and M. The likely financial benefits of the system 
aren’t included on this document, so in any case there was no way for Mr K to compare his 
total costs against the financial benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
Mr K has said the financial benefits were discussed; despite the paperwork I’ve seen not 
including information about them. I’ve looked at a copy of M’s website from September 2013, 
on the Solar PV page, under financial predictions it states –
Along with the above, potential benefits of a solar panel system purchased from M are 
mentioned several times on the website. I think it follows that if the website heavily 
emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system and the profit and return on the investment 
(as mentioned above), it’s likely this would have been a central part of M’s conversation 
when selling the product. 
So, I find what Mr K’s said believable, I think M’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation. 
Given the contract doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr K would have looked to 
M’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they 
would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In September 2014, and later in November 2015, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and accurate
information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
I’m also aware that Citizens Advice Bureau (‘CAB’) carried out analysis on 292 cases where 
consumers had contacted it for advice about M. It then provided a statement to RECC about 
M in September 2015. This statement raised a number of issues with M’s conduct, including 
but not limited to, misleading marketing claims where consumers were told that the solar 
panels were ‘free’ and that the FIT payments ‘would comfortably cover the loan repayments 
on their finance deals’.
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC and CAB were looking 
at, the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr 
K’s complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr K’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr K left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £137, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr K’s account of what he was told by M, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received 
from M. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,644 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr K’s 
system was not performing as expected, but his system has not produced this. So, these 
statements were not true. I think M’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr K’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think M's 
representative would have known that Mr K’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr K.
Considering Mr K’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the fact Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely M gave Mr 
K a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr K was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr K went into the transaction. Either way, I think M’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr K’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr K in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr K 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr K and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay Mr 
K a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result of 
M’s assurances. That is, that Mr K’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr K received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr K received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr K 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to deal with Mr K’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr K some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr K £200.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr K’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr K has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr K’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr K should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr K 
*Where Mr K has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr K a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
I also think the way Creation handled Mr K’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset,
and an award of £200 is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4040492
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss M feels that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd provided a loan to her that she couldn’t
reasonably afford.
What happened
In November 2020, Miss M successfully applied to Creation for a £15,000 loan and received
the loan funds shortly afterwards. In June 2021, Miss M raised a complaint with Creation,
because she felt she hadn’t been able to afford the loan Creation provided to her and that
this should have been evident to Creation, had they reasonably assessed her financial
circumstances at the time she applied for the loan.
Creation looked at Miss M’s complaint. They didn’t feel that they had acted unfairly or
irresponsibly in providing the loan to Miss M, and so didn’t uphold her complaint. Miss M
wasn’t satisfied with Creation’s response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it should have been evident
to Creation when Miss M applied for the loan that she wouldn’t, in all likelihood, be able to
afford it. Our investigator therefore recommended that this complaint should be upheld in
Miss M’s favour and issued instructions to Creation to put matters right.
Creation accepted the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, but there then
followed some confusion as to what corrective action Creation should take, including
regarding Miss M’s credit file. This resulted in the complaint being passed to an ombudsman
for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 21 February 2023 as follows:
Creation have accepted that they shouldn’t in all fairness have provided this loan to 
Miss M. As such, I won’t go into to detail on that point here, other than saying that 
I’ve reviewed Miss M’s financial situation at the time she applied for the loan and 
having done so I agree that the loan wasn’t reasonably affordable for her at that time.
The question then becomes what corrective action Creation should take to return 
Miss M, as much as fairly possible, to the financial situation she should have been in, 
had the loan never been given to her.
To begin, it must be acknowledged that Miss M received, and had the benefit of, the 
£15,000 loan amount. As such, I feel it’s fair that Miss M should repay that £15,000 
loan amount. But I don’t feel that Miss M should be asked to repay anything more 
than the £15,000 she received from Creation. As such, my provisional instructions 
here will include that Creation must reimburse to Miss M’s loan account all interest, 
charges, and fees incurred on the account throughout the life of the loan – so that 
they go towards reducing the £15,000 capital balance of the loan.
It seems likely, given the size of the loan and the number of payments Miss M has 
made towards it, that following these reimbursements, a portion of the £15,000 
capital balance will remain outstanding for Miss M to repay. Creation must therefore 
contact Miss M and conduct a detailed income and expenditure assessment with her, 
so that they can agree a suitable, interest free repayment plan to allow Miss M to 
repay that remaining balance. It must also be the case that no further interest, fees, 
or charges are applied to this loan.
My provisional instructions here also include that Creation must remove all adverse 
credit file reporting relating to this loan from Miss M’s credit file – but must do so only 
when Miss M has fully repaid the remainder of the balance she will, most likely, 
remain liable for. And Creation should not make any amendments to Miss M’s credit 
file until Miss M has fully repaid the remainder of the capital balance that she 
borrowed.
Finally, I’m satisfied that Miss M has incurred some distress and inconvenience here
resulting from her being provided this loan. As such, my final instruction is that 
Creation must pay £250 to Miss M as compensation for the upset and trouble she’d 
incurred. Creation must pay this amount directly to Miss M and must not apply this 
£250 to reduce the balance of Miss M’s loan account, unless Miss M gives Creation 
her permission for them to do so.
Creation responded to my provisional decision and confirmed they were happy to accept it. 
Creation also indicated that it may be the case that the reimbursements that will be made to 
Miss M’s account may clear the account arrears as they presently stand and leave the 
account in a position of credit in Miss M’s favour, which would then allow the credit file to be 
amended in line with what I explained above.
Miss M didn’t respond to my provisional decision. However, given that I’ve received no 
objections to my provisional decision, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding 
this complaint in Miss M’s favour on the basis explained above. And I confirm that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Creation must reimburse to Miss M’s loan account all interest, charges, and fees incurred on 
the account throughout the life of the loan – so that they go towards reducing the 
outstanding capital balance of the loan.
If, following these reimbursement, an outstanding balance remains for Miss M to pay, 
Creation must contact Miss M and conduct a detailed income and expenditure assessment 
with her, so that they can agree a suitable, interest free repayment plan to allow Miss M to 
repay that remaining balance. It must also be the case that no further interest, fees, or 
charges are applied to this loan.
Creation must remove all adverse credit file reporting relating to this loan from Miss M’s 
credit file – but must do so only when no outstanding loan balance remains to be paid. 
Creation must also make a further payment of £250 to Miss M as compensation for the 
trouble and upset she’s incurred. Creation must pay this amount directly to Miss M and must 
not apply this £250 to reduce the balance of Miss M’s loan account, unless Miss M gives 
Creation her permission for them to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Creation Consumer Finance Ltd on 
the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4045901
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim she’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”).
Ms S has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer 
to Ms S throughout.
What happened
In December 2013, Ms S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £9,500 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The loan amount was for £9,500 
and the total amount payable under the agreement was £14,946 and it was due to be paid 
back with 120 monthly repayments of £124.55.
Creation told us that they received Ms S’s letter of complaint on 15 July 2020. In the 
complaint Ms S explained that she considered she had a valid claim against it under s75 
due to misrepresentation and breach of contract by P. Ms S said she’d been told she 
could be entitled to a solar panel system at no cost to her. She says she was told the 
system would be fully self-funding. 
In summary, Ms S says:

P’s representative misled her that the system would pay for itself within 8 years 
and then she would have many years of reduced electricity bills which would be 
profit.

P told her the FIT payments and savings she would make would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments.

P told Ms S she would save in excess of £10,000 due to the supply of LED light 
bulbs.

P told Ms S that installing solar panels would reduce the council tax bill by 50%.

She was induced into the agreement by false statements from P. She wouldn’t 
have entered into the agreement had it not been for those statements.
On the basis of the above Ms S said she had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. 
To resolve the claim and complaint, Ms S requested that Creation should make a payment 
to settle the matter.
Creation told us that they received Ms S’s letter of complaint on 15 July 2020. Creation did 
not provide a final response letter to the complaint initially and so the complaint was 
referred to this service on 14 October 2020. Creation issued a final response letter on 6 
November 2020. Creation rejected Ms S’s complaint on the basis it was made out of time 
based on their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. Creation did not comment on the 
s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of contract. Whilst the complaint to Creation did 
not mention Section 140A (s140A) of the CCA, in bringing the complaint to this service, 
Ms S raised an alleged failure under that part of the Act. Creation has not responded to 
the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response.
Ms S wasn’t happy with the response to the complaint so asked us to review the 
complaint.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred. Consequently, 
Creation believe that it has no liability to Ms S under said Act and so they have no liability 
under s75 of the CCA.
I have taken this to mean that Creation have rejected Ms S’s s75 claim for 
misrepresentation on the basis it was ‘time-barred’ taking into account the Limitation Act 
1980 (the ‘LA’). 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 14 October 
2020, which is the date when Ms S’s representative sent details of her complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Ms S’s s75 complaint. I will then 
consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Ms S’s complaint in relation to an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (s140A) of the CCA, before turning to 
the merits of the complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Ms S brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 14 October 2020 
before the final response letter had been issued but three months after raising the 
complaint with Creation. The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful 
rejection of Ms S’s s75 claim on 6 November 2020. So, her complaint in relation to the s75 
claim was brought in time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction because Ms S was 
not happy with the answer in the final response letter.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Ms S’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Ms S is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between herself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with her. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship was still running when the complaint was brought to this 
service. The complaint in relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service on 14 
October 2020. So, the s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event 
complained of and has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about an alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into during December 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that P (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 15 July 2020, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against P for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around December 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by P can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming P to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations P carried out direct with Ms S.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider P’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Ms S.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Ms S and P.
Ms S told us she was informed she could be entitled to have a Solar System at absolutely 
no cost to her. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Ms S’s allegation she was told it would be self-funding. Apart from the 
loan agreement I have seen little from the time of the sale that speaks to the complaint 
points. 
The loan agreement sets out Ms S’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. And the Solar Assessment Order Form contains a section that 
describes the ‘Potential Income – Savings’ which does not provide a clear picture of the 
likely financial benefits from the system. I say that because the amount for income from 
Feed In Tariff payments in year one is said to be over £25,000. But the Total potential 
income in year one is said to be around £400. In the absence of clarity in the 
documentation that was received by Ms S at the time I think that Ms S would placed 
weight on what she was told by P at that time. 
I must consider all the submissions made to me in a complaint. But I am also able to 
consider other relevant information. In this case I have considered that in 2014 P were 
found to be in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code in September 2014. And 
one of the breaches was found to be that consumers may have been misled about the 
costs of the loan being met fully by income generated from the solar panels. So, this 
seems to support what Ms S told us; that the solar panels cost would be fully met from the 
income and savings they could generate. So, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that P did tell Ms S the scheme would be self-funding. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Ms S had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before P contacted her. Ms S has said she only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Ms S would have agreed to install a solar panel system if her monthly 
outgoings would increase.
Ms S told us that P told her the income from the solar panel system would pay off the 
agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Ms S’s testimony seemed 
persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that 
Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that P did tell Ms S the scheme would be self-funding.  On balance, I find Ms S’s account 
to be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,494.60 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Ms S’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
she’s achieved this benefit. The FIT statements I’ve seen do not seem to be complete but 
they don’t seems to suggest that Ms S was achieving the kind of benefits that would have 
made the loan self-funding. I’ve not been supplied a full set of copies of Ms S’s electricity 
bills, so I don’t know what savings she made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s 
more likely than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Ms S made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely P gave Ms S a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Ms S was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But even if they did not have that effect, they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Ms S went into the transaction. Either
way, P’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Ms S’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Ms S in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Ms S and Creation to have been unfair.
Ms S has had to pay more than she expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Ms S otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Ms S fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Ms S and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Ms S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Ms S’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Ms S received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Ms S received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Ms S will need to supply up to date
details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to
Creation. Creation can use assumptions when information is not available – if, for
example, the electricity company has gone out of business. Ms S should let us know
in response to this decision if she’s unable to supply any of the relevant FIT benefits, 
electricity bills and meter reading, and the reasons why.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Ms S made towards the loan up until she repaid
it – A

Use Ms S’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Ms S should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use her electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Ms S paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Ms S paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and
meter readings Creation should pay Ms S C + F
I agree Creation’s failure to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Ms S
some further inconvenience. And I think the £200 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Ms S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms S’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4046993
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) hasn’t fairly considered his claim 
under section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to an item he says wasn’t 
delivered.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr M ordered a smartwatch with a supplier, who I will refer to as T. It cost 
around £400 and it was financed by a 12 month credit agreement with Creation. Mr M says 
within an hour of placing the order, he changed his mind and cancelled it. 
A few days later, he says he received a text message to say an item was being delivered to 
his address by a courier company who I will refer to as G. Mr M says he was unable to 
accept the delivery so he requested for it to be left inside his brown bin outside his home. 
He later received confirmation the item had been delivered but he says when he checked the 
bin, there was no package. Uncertain what item was being delivered, he checked his emails 
and found he had received messages from T confirming the smartwatch had been 
dispatched and another email saying it was delivered. Mr M said this was a surprise as he 
wasn’t expecting a delivery from T because as far as he was concerned he had cancelled 
the order.
He called T to complain there was no parcel inside his brown bin. They maintained the 
smartwatch had been delivered. Unhappy with their response, he complained to Creation as 
the supplier of the finance. In summary, Creation accepted the findings of T and rejected the 
section 75 claim. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
initially recommended the complaint was upheld, stating there was insufficient evidence the 
smartwatch was delivered. In response, Creation provided further evidence from T such as 
their ‘lost in transit’ investigation notes which included a picture taken by courier company G 
which they say demonstrates the delivery package was left in Mr M’s brown bin. 
In light of the new evidence, the investigator changed their opinion and said the complaint 
shouldn’t be upheld. He said on balance, he was persuaded the watch was delivered to Mr 
M’s address. Mr M disagreed and maintained his position. 
As an agreement couldn’t be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr M’s complaint. I’ll explain why.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods (T) or the provider of credit (Creation) if there’s been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation. I’m satisfied the requirement for a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is 
present in this case therefore I find Mr M was able to make a section 75 claim. 
Non receipt of an item that has been ordered and/or paid for would be considered a breach 
of contract. Therefore when reviewing this complaint, I’ve thought about whether Creation 
fairly considered Mr M’s section 75 claim.
I’ve carefully reviewed the evidence and submissions from all parties concerned regarding 
the delivery of the smartwatch. 
Mr M says he cancelled the order for the smartwatch therefore he can’t be held responsible 
for what happened to it. There is insufficient evidence of the order being cancelled, but 
neither T nor Creation have disputed this so I accept Mr M cancelled the order. However 
when doing so, I’m unable to say with any certainty what he was told about this or the next 
steps he needed to take. T has said at the time the order was cancelled, it was too late to 
cancel the delivery process but they say Mr M still had the ability to reject the delivery or 
return the item to them. Given the circumstances, I find that to be reasonable. T sent an 
email to Mr M confirming the smartwatch had been dispatched so I find he ought reasonably 
to have known the item was going to be delivered to him. Although the order was cancelled, 
it’s clear the delivery process itself couldn’t be therefore Mr M was responsible for ensuring 
the unwanted smartwatch was returned successfully to T. 
G sent a text message to Mr M confirming a package would be delivered that day. I note Mr 
M comments he was uncertain what was due to be delivered. However I’ve seen a template 
copy of the message he would’ve received and it shows T’s brand logo so I’m satisfied it was 
made clear to Mr M that the delivery was from them. Equally there is no suggestion he was 
expecting any other deliveries from T so it’s fair to say it was the smartwatch. 
By Mr M’s own admission (which is also supported by T’s evidence), when notified by G 
about the delivery, he requested for it to be left in the brown bin outside of his home. While 
entitled to choose such an option, it does come with some potential risks as it’s not 
necessarily a safe or secure place. According to G, Mr M would’ve had to agree to accept 
such liability when making the request and to agree no authorised signature would be 
needed. As the request was accepted by G, I believe it’s safe to assume Mr M agreed to 
such liability so I can’t say G did anything wrong by following his request. 
G has provided a copy of a picture showing what they say is the package inside Mr M’s 
brown bin. Mr M questions whether this is indeed his bin and whether the package was 
actually addressed to him. Having looked at the picture, there are no defining marks for me 
to determine if it was Mr M’s bin such as his house number, nor can I see the name label on 
the package. However given he asked for it to be left in the bin, he received confirmation it 
had been delivered and there’s a picture showing a package in a brown bin, I can 
understand why on balance Creation determined the package had been delivered to Mr M.
Mr M maintains no package was left in the bin. He also says there’s a possibility it was 
stolen from an unidentified person or G’s delivery driver. These are strong allegations to 
make especially against G’s delivery driver and there is insufficient evidence to support such 
claims. Although there is a possibility the package may have been stolen from the bin, for 
the reasons highlighted above, T asserts it was correctly delivered and once in Mr M’s 
‘possession’, they aren’t liable if it is later stolen. I believe this argument raised by T to be a 
fair one. I find Creation nor T can reasonably be held liable for what may have happened to 
the smartwatch once it had been delivered as per Mr M’s instructions. 
Overall, I’m satisfied Creation considered the information provided by Mr M, T and G. Based 
on the evidence presented, I can understand why it didn’t think a breach of contract occurred 
and the smartwatch was successfully delivered to Mr M as per his instructions. Therefore I 
find their decision to reject the section 75 claim and not agreeing to cancel the finance 
agreement to be fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided not to uphold Mr M’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4049274
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Miss G has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Miss G throughout.  
What happened 
In November 2015 Miss G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £7,995 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The agreement was 
for 10 years, and Miss G was due to pay 120 instalments of £103.35. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,402 including interest.  
In June 2022 Miss G put in a claim with Creation. She said S cold called her and persuaded 
her to have a sales meeting at her home. She said S made several misrepresentations, the 
main one being that the system would be self-funding. She said S told her the electricity 
generated by the system would lead to her being paid feed in tariff (FIT) payments. She said 
S told her she’d make significant savings on electricity bills. She said S told her the benefits 
would cover the loan payments. Miss G said she wasn’t given enough time to go through the 
paperwork. Miss G said she’d calculated her monthly shortfall through the system as being 
around £50. 
Creation sent a final response letter in December 2022 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Miss G decided to refer the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
One of our investigators looked into things and said he thought the s.140A complaint had 
been brought within our time limits. But he said he’d attempted to contact Miss G to ask 
further questions and obtain testimony from her, but he hadn’t received a response. Our 
investigator said he’d only seen limited documentation from the point of sale. He said he 
couldn’t find any relevant information when carrying out research into S. He noted Miss G 
hadn’t contacted S to raise any concerns within the three years it was trading after the 
installation. He said it took Miss G over six years to raise concerns with Creation. Our 
investigator said, on balance, he didn’t think Creation needed to take any action, and he 
didn’t uphold the complaint.  
Miss G said she didn’t agree with the outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
 
 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Miss G’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay a section 75 (“s.75”) claim and the allegations of an unfair 
relationship under s.140A. 
The s.75 complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Miss G’s s.75 claim 
in December 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Miss G brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in September 2022 and 
asked us to continue to investigate after the final response letter was sent. So, her complaint 
in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss G. Here I understand the relationship 
was ongoing when Miss G put in her claim and complaint, and referred her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The s.75 complaint  
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in November 2015. Miss G brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation in June 2022. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with 
it. Given this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 
claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
 
 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss G.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Miss G says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Miss G says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Miss G to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. 
We’ve also been supplied an invoice and a satisfaction note. The satisfaction note signed by 
Miss G set out the system was expected to perform at 3,752kWh annually. And it set out: 
Expected generation tariff income 
£467 
Expected export tariff income  
£90 
Combined total income 
 
£557  
The satisfaction note I’ve seen was signed around a week or so after Miss G signed the 
fixed sum loan, presumably around the time of installation.   
I’m conscious our investigator tried to speak to Miss G several times to ask questions about 
the sale of the system, and he wrote to Miss G as well asking for information. Our 
investigator wanted to know more details about Miss G’s recollections; her circumstances at 
the time; details of what happened with the paperwork; Miss G’s understanding of the sales 
presentation; and details of anything else significant that Miss G remembered from the sale. 
Miss G didn’t respond to our investigator’s request. And she’s not offered any substantive 
comments in response to our investigator’s assessment not upholding the complaint. 
The satisfaction note broadly sets out the estimated benefits of the system quite clearly. 
Miss G knew the loan payments were around £1,200 per year. It’s not clear why she didn’t 
raise concerns sooner when she signed a satisfaction note setting out the estimated annual 
benefit was £557. Without hearing from her, it’s impossible to know, or to be able to reach 
firmer conclusions.  
For this particular case, I’d like to have been more certain S misled Miss G about the 
benefits of the system. From what I’ve seen, it looks like S did give Miss G information so 
she could compare the overall costs to the benefits she’d likely receive. She sent a letter of 
claim in 2022 setting out her complaint points. But we’ve not been able to speak to her or 
obtain a response to our written requests from her to understand more about the 
circumstances of her complaint, and her reasons for not raising it sooner. I think the 
investigator was trying to obtain reasonable information and he set out his reasons for not 
upholding the complaint. Miss G hasn’t provided substantive comments on why she 
disagreed.  
Moreover, I’ve also not been able to find any other compelling evidence from around the 
time of the sale that supports Miss G’s allegations. So, on balance, I don’t think there’s 
sufficient grounds to uphold the complaint. I’m therefore not going to make any directions.  
 
 
 
My final decision 
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4059626
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs C has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s1.40A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mrs C has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs C throughout.  
What happened 
In June 2013 Mrs C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£7,995 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,610.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £105.09. There was a £135 arrangement fee and an interest charge 
of £4,480.80.  
In November 2021 Mrs C sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system 
was mis-sold.  
She said P told her she’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated through 
the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that she’d have reduced energy bills. 
She said P sold the system as being self-funding. She said the system was misrepresented 
and believed the statements and several other actions at the time of the sale created an 
unfair relationship between herself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in December 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs C decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in April 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mrs C the system 
would be self-funding. She didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the 
loan term, and so she thought P had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find 
the relationship between Mrs C and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss 
through entering into the agreement. She thought Creation should recalculate the loan 
based on known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that she 
pays no more than that, and she keeps the system. She also thought Creation should pay 
£100 for not looking into the s.140A claim. 
Mrs C agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
 
 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in April 2022, so the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs C.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mrs C says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs C says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs C to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the 
system. 
Mrs C said she didn’t have an interest in solar panels and only agreed to the visit from P 
because it said the system would pay for itself. She said P told her once the agreement was 
paid, she’d receive free electricity. She said she was given a quote of around £7,500 for the 
system but it looks like her system cost around £7,995. She’s highlighted there were 
different systems discussed – a 2.5 and 3kWh system. I note the quote Mrs C received was 
for around £7,500 and the agreement she signed was for £7,995. The paperwork doesn’t 
 
 
clearly set out why there’s a discrepancy, but the different size systems that were discussed 
likely explain the difference.  
Neither the quote I’ve seen or the purchase order supplied have any details of the expected 
savings Mrs C was likely to make through having the system installed.  
I’ve also looked at a copy of P’s website from May 2013 because Mrs C says the financial 
benefits were discussed. On the main page it states – 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated -  
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes – 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mrs C’s 
testimony that P’s representative told her the system would pay for itself.  
So, I find what Mrs C said believable. I think P’s website supports her testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and her savings on electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation.  
I think Mrs C would have looked to P’s representative to help her understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mrs C’s testimony that she was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
I think it’s also important to note the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code and makes sure its members comply with it. 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns at the end of April 2014. 
Significantly RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that 
pressured sales were taking place. 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -   
 
 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
So, the Panel decided P breached sections of the code which required members not to 
provide false or misleading information to consumers, and which concerned members 
providing clear information so consumers could make an informed decision. Given RECC’s 
concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to terminate P’s membership of 
RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above related to findings on different cases the RECC was looking 
at, and that Mrs C was given some technical information from P, the findings suggest that 
there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mrs C has complained about, at a 
similar time she was sold his system. 
Creation has also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016. The 
report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought up by Creation, which led to it 
terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it expected claims from 
consumers. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it had serious concerns about the way 
P was selling Solar Panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mrs C’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs C said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mrs C left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of £105.09, payable for 10 years. Given her lack of prior interest and the financial 
burden she took on I find Mrs C’s account of what she was told by P, credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have 
seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s said she 
received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of over £1,250 per year. However, importantly here I don’t think the system 
would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. The system 
looks like it’s underperforming quite significantly. I arranged for our investigator to contact 
the parties about this. Mrs C said she thought she was paying for a higher yielding system 
that what was actually installed. She also said she called back P within the first year and it 
fitted a new inverter because the system wasn’t functioning correctly. She said she wasn’t 
aware the system was underperforming and had no basis of comparison. She said the 
system is facing East/West as opposed to South facing which she understood would 
produce less energy. But there was no other indication of a problem. Creation hasn’t 
responded to offer any comments.  
On balance, even if the system was performing as expected, it wouldn’t likely have provided 
enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. And the underperformance has 
made that even less likely. I think the statements that were likely made by P were not true. I 
think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs C’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to 
be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have 
known that Mrs C’s system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of 
the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mrs C. 
 
 
Considering Mrs C’s account about what she was told, P’s website, RECC’s findings, 
Creation’s actions and that it hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mrs C a false 
and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs C was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mrs C went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs C’s 
point of view. 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs C in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs C and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs C and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs C a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs C’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs C received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. 
Mrs C will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and 
current meter readings to Creation.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mrs C some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
 
Finally, I note Mrs C also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given 
my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mrs C’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs C’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs C has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs C 
• 
Pay Mrs C £100 compensation 
*Where Mrs C is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2024.  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4063838
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has mishandled her claim under
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) in respect of building works to a
conservatory which were financed via a fixed sum loan, and which were of a poor standard.
What happened
This complaint has a lengthy background which is well known to the parties. I have therefore
only set out a brief overview of events.
In March 2021 Mrs C entered into an agreement for a company to supply and fit a new roof
and doors to her existing conservatory. The works were to be paid for via a fixed sum loan
with Creation over 120 months. The loan had a one-year deferment period after the advance
date, so payments didn’t fall due until after this time had passed.
In or around May 2021 the works commenced, and a satisfaction note as to the quality of the
work was signed by Mrs C’s husband. However, in June 2021 Mrs C contacted Creation as
she was unhappy with both the standard of work and that the job had not been completed.
She said that the doors hadn’t been measured correctly and didn’t fit properly, that there
were problems with the quality of the plastering and the roof was leaking. Mrs C said a new
floor was to be installed but this had to be put on hold because of the issues.
Creation contacted the retailer and they replied that they had already inspected the work and
had ordered all the materials required to complete the job. They said they were just awaiting
delivery of some tiles.
Creation wrote to Mrs C and said that it acknowledged there were faults with the works that
had been carried out and it would uphold her claim under section 75. Creation said that as
the retailer had agreed to fix the faults and had ordered the materials to do so, it was
satisfied this was a fair resolution.
Mrs C says that she then waited for the retailer to return but there was little contact from
them and although some delay was due to covid, the remedial work wasn’t undertaken. Mrs
C complained to this service.
Mrs C said that there were still a number of issues with the conservatory roof and doors
including the roof leaking when it rained, missing guttering and downpipe, damage to a
window which had buckled, chipped door handles, poor workmanship, damage to the under-
flooring, cracks to plaster and damage to various pieces of furniture as they had been left out
in the rain when the work had been taking place. Mrs C supplied a number of photos of the
problems with the conservatory roof, the quality of the workmanship and damage to the
furniture.
Mrs C said she had been told the original installation would be completed within a week.
However, she said it had now been over a year and there were still substantial faults that
needed resolving. Mrs C said that she had lost faith in the retailer and would like a different
company to replace the roof and repair the damage done to the conservatory.
Mrs C was asked to obtain quotes from independent contractors for the cost of the required
remedial work. In November 2021, she provided two which were very different as one set out
the cost of taking down and replacing the whole conservatory at a total cost of £35,690 and
the second was for £12,600 to remove and replace the roof.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs C’s complaint should be upheld. She said that she
could see from the evidence provided that there was undoubtedly some damage to Mrs C’s
property, and the installation remained unfinished. She said that under the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 there was an implied term in Mrs C’s contract with the retailer, that the installation
should be of satisfactory quality and fitted with reasonable care and skill. She said she
thought that the work that had been done was neither satisfactory nor to a reasonable
standard and in areas was still incomplete. 
Our investigator said that she thought the most suitable remedy here was for Creation to
arrange for the installation to be made good, together with the damage caused as a result of
the poor fitting to date. As Mrs C had lost faith in the retailer, the investigator said she
thought Creation needed to appoint a suitably qualified building contractor, other
than the retailer to repair all the damage to Mrs C’s property that was directly attributable to
the roof installation.
Following our investigator’s view, the retailer returned to Mrs C’s property and further
remedial works were carried out over time. However, Mrs C says that despite this, the roof is
still leaking, that seals around the doors are large and ugly and can’t be removed, that the
doors and window are still out of line, and she hasn’t been compensated for the damage to
the furniture. She has provided further new photos showing the damp on the ceiling. Mrs C
has estimated the damage to the furniture and flooring to be around £1,650.
Mrs C was asked to obtain further quotes as to the cost of fixing the ongoing problems with
the conservatory roof and doors but, despite her efforts, she hadn’t been able to do so.
Creation said it wasn’t in a position to arrange for quotes.
In light of the amount of time that had now passed I thought it would be fair for me to issue 
my provisional decision even without the quotes, as I could see Mrs C had tried to obtain 
these without success. I was also aware of the distress and inconvenience the faults with the 
work undertaken on the conservatory had caused and continued to cause Mrs C. I issued 
my provisional decision along the following lines.
Section 75 gives a consumer, in certain circumstances, equal right to claim a refund
against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit, if there has been a
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. Here, I thought it had been agreed 
by Creation that Mrs C’s claim in respect of the work undertaken to her conservatory had 
met the requirements of a section 75 claim. Looking at the evidence that had been supplied, 
I agreed that Mrs C had shown there had been a breach of contract by the retailer in respect
of the quality of the work undertaken to the conservatory. And so, my role was to decide
whether Creation had gone on to handle Mrs C's fairly and reasonably.
Originally, Creation had found that it was a fair resolution for the retailer to return and resolve 
the issues. And I’d seen that there had been a number of visits by the retailer in an attempt 
to fix things and finish the outstanding works. However, it was clear from the photos that had 
been provided that the roof was still leaking when raining. Mrs C also remained unhappy 
about the poor alignment of the doors and windows which had been raised on the
satisfaction note signed by Mrs C’s husband in September 2022. And from the photos
provided it appeared that the side panels and windowsills remained out of line.
I appreciated that the windows weren’t something that the retailer had provided and that the 
retailer had also raised that it was the construction of the conservatory which might have 
been the cause of the issue with the door. But I hadn’t seen a survey report from either the 
retailer or an independent company setting out in detail what the issues were. The retailer 
didn’t appear to agree that the workmanship on the roof had been poor. Because of the lack 
of report, I couldn’t reasonably say whether there were issues with the conservatory frame 
itself which had been caused by the new roof. And as the conservatory hadn’t been supplied 
or constructed by the retailer, I would need evidence that showed that. However, I was 
satisfied that when looking at the photos of the roof and doors the workmanship appeared to 
be poor.
Mrs C said that when she had obtained the two quotes back in November 2021, that both
companies who had inspected the work had advised her the conservatory would need to be 
taken down and rebuilt because the frame had buckled due to the work on the roof. 
However, only one of the quotes Mrs C had provided was for reconstruction of the 
conservatory. The other had only been for a replacement roof. Neither quote had provided 
details of the problems that had been found.
I therefore thought that I would need to see evidence from an independent contractor that 
the conservatory building itself had been so undermined by the construction of the new roof
that it required replacing before I could say that Creation should accept the invoice for
removing and constructing a new conservatory.
However, I was satisfied that Mrs C had produced sufficient evidence to support that,
despite the various visits from the retailer, the roof was still faulty. Looking at the length of
time this had taken, and the number of attempts to fix it, then I thought it was more likely 
than not that the issue with the roof wasn’t minor, and for an unknown reason the doors were 
out of alignment. I thought it was more likely than not the roof would need to be refitted since 
repair work hadn’t fixed the leaking or the way the doors fitted and there were likely to be 
major unresolved issues as to the roof construction meaning it would need to be stripped off
entirely and re-fitted.
I therefore thought it would be fair for Creation to settle this by cancelling the credit 
agreement between itself and Mrs C and return any payments made by her with interest. 
Mrs C will then need to arrange with a separate contractor for a new roof to be fitted and for 
the doors to be replaced.
Mrs C had raised that she had suffered consequential losses during the works as damage 
had been caused to various pieces of furniture when placed in the garden. She had supplied 
photos of this. However, the retailer had disagreed they had any liability for this. They said 
that they had requested for the conservatory to be empty when the work had been 
undertaken because they were replacing the roof. It was, the retailer said, Mrs C’s choice to 
put the items in the garden due to an issue of space.
Creation said one of the contractors working on the property had offered a tarpaulin to
cover the items but this had been as a gesture because it was raining rather than taking
responsibility for the furniture.
I’d seen Mrs C had explained the furniture had been placed in the garden due to there being 
a lack of space to store it in the property. And although there wasn’t a document from the
retailer setting out that the conservatory had to be emptied before the work could be
undertaken, I thought it was more likely than not that this would have been requested when 
the survey by the retailer had been undertaken about the work. And since this had involved 
the fitting of a new roof, I thought it was reasonable for the retailer to have requested the 
furniture was moved.
I also thought it was reasonable for the retailer to have expected Mrs C to make those
arrangements and while I appreciated Mrs C may not have had anywhere to move her
furniture other than into the garden, I didn’t think I could reasonably say that the retailer and
therefore, Creation was responsible for any consequent damage for her having done so. I
didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly in not offering compensation for the
damage to the furniture.
Mrs C had also raised an issue about damage to the flooring, but I had seen that in her
original complaint to Creation the flooring was to be replaced and this had been put
on hold until the work on the conservatory had been completed. So, I was unsure whether
the plan was originally to replace the flooring, particularly as new doors were being fitted,
and the new frame would be likely to damage the flooring around the threshold. However,
if I was wrong about that, then I would be grateful if Mrs C could provide details as to when
the floor had been fitted and when and how it had been damaged, and I would of course 
have been happy to look at that again.
I appreciated that the sofa has gotten wet from the roof leaking when returned to the
conservatory, Mrs C had given an estimate to have it cleaned. In order for me to consider
that I needed her to provide me with an actual quote.
I’d seen that this had been a very stressful time for Mrs C, and I thought it was reasonable to
say she had suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with the faulty work on the
conservatory. I didn’t think Creation had been supportive and there had been periods
when it hadn’t responded to Mrs C or to this service. I thought compensation would be fair 
and looking at the impact I thought £500 would be fair. I appreciated there has been an 
impact on Mrs C’s family and that her husband has been unwell, but as the financial 
agreement was between Mrs C and Creation then I could only consider Mrs C when looking 
at an appropriate amount of compensation.
So, for the reasons set out above I was intending to uphold Mrs C’ complaint.
Mrs C has agreed with my provisional decision and hasn’t asked me to look again at the 
consequential losses she’d claimed nor about the settlement I proposed. Creation also 
hasn’t asked me to look at any parts of my provisional decision, it asked me to clarify that it 
wouldn’t be responsible for removing the roof as well as cancelling the financial agreement 
and reimbursing Mrs C.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to reconsider my provisional decision, I have still 
reviewed the evidence and the conclusions that I reached. I haven’t changed my mind. I 
think that Creation didn’t handle Mrs C’s section 75 claim fairly as the works on the 
conservatory have still not been rectified and faults remain.
In light of the faults that are still present with the conservatory roof and doors, I think it’s fair 
for the credit agreement to be cancelled and for Mrs C to be reimbursed any payments she 
has made under that agreement. However, for the reasons set out, above I’m not asking 
Creation to reimburse Mrs C for any consequential damage to the furniture.
I also think that compensation is due to Mrs C for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
dealing with the faulty works and £500 is a fair amount to reflect the impact this has had on 
her.
I confirm I am not asking Creation to be responsible for removing the conservatory roof. 
Once the agreement has been cancelled and the reimbursements/compensation paid, it will 
be for Mrs C to arrange and be responsible for the required work.
I’m therefore upholding Mrs C’s complaint.
Putting things right
As set out above, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I’m asking Creation Consumer
Finance Ltd to do the following:

Cancel the fixed sum loan and refund Mrs C any monthly or lump sum payments 
made under the agreement together with simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Pay Mrs C the amount of £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience dealing with the faulty works to the conservatory.

Remove any adverse information reported in respect of this account from Mrs C’s
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I’m upholding Mrs C’s complaint. I’m asking Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to do the following:

Cancel the fixed sum loan and refund Mrs C any monthly or lump sum payments 
made under the agreement together with simple interest at the yearly rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement. *

Pay Mrs C the amount of £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience dealing with the faulty works to the conservatory.

Remove any adverse information reported in respect of this account from Mrs C’s
credit file.
 
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs C how much they’ve taken off. They should also give Mrs C a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4064043
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms H complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd hasn’t done enough to fix a faulty 
kitchen installation.
What happened
In October 2020 Ms H entered into a finance agreement with Creation to fund a kitchen 
installation by a supplier of kitchen installations. In December 2020 the kitchen started to be 
installed by the kitchen supplier, but Ms H says there were problems from the start. She tried 
to sort matters out with the Supplier, but this was unsuccessful. So she took her dispute to 
Creation in September 2021.
Creation looked at what happened and explained in its letter of November 2021 that it 
thought that all the issues had been remedied, so it rejected Ms H’s complaint about the 
kitchen. But Ms H didn’t agree, so she brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. They got both parties to agree to an independent 
report looking at the quality of the kitchen installation. That report was done (dated 12 
February 2023) and it found that there was no evidence of neglect or misuse and it also 
found that a “reasonable quality product has been compromised by some unprofessional 
installation working skills.” Our investigator then issued an assessment highlighting the 
kitchen issues requiring remedy and saying Creation should fix those matters and pay Ms H 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Creation doesn’t dispute this assessment. 
Ms H has only responded to say she thinks the distress and inconvenience award should be 
significantly higher. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see a large number of arguments and comments have been made in relation to what 
has happened here. For the sake of clarity and brevity I do not intend to comment on every 
argument or piece of evidence here. I shall focus on the issues I consider to be at the heart 
of the matter.
I note that Ms H has mentioned during the course of this dispute that she’s suffered 
bereavements during these events around her kitchen. I’m very sorry to hear of Ms H’s 
losses in this regard.
Ms H has also noted that she suffers from mental health conditions. These are clearly 
important considerations here and I’ve kept these conditions at the forefront of my thinking in 
this matter.
These matters have been going on for too long and clearly both parties want to bring the 
matter to an end as soon as practicable. Accordingly this decision is focused on finality in 
these matters as that is in the best interests of both parties.
The installation
Throughout this complaint Ms H has been making clear that she wants the issues with the 
kitchen fixed. The independent report (dated 12 February 2023 but erroneously referred to a 
as being dated 15 February 2023) has made clear that there are significant issues with her 
kitchen, and I can see Creation has not disputed that. Ms H hasn’t disputed the findings of 
the independent report once the Investigator articulated the report’s findings in their 
assessment of the matter. Accordingly, having considered everything here and being 
satisfied I can rely on the independent report fairly to both parties I see nothing to be gained 
by rehashing what has happened before the report as both parties are familiar with the 
events here.
In their assessment letter, the Investigator set out their solution to the matter with regard to 
the kitchen installation which was as follows:

Carry out the recommendations identified in the independent report (dated 12 
February 2023)

Clear the arrears of £2,489.04 that has accrued due to 12 missed payments. This will
reduce the finance amount to be paid to £9,010.96.

Clear Ms H’s credit file of any negative entries logged in relation to this credit 
agreement.

Give a new 12-month deferment period from when the kitchen is repaired
Having considered all of the evidence here I consider the findings of the independent report 
persuasive. Accordingly I direct Creation to arrange for these recommendations to 
completed on notification that Ms H accepts this decision. 
I note the supplier has voiced concerns about Ms H being “very aggressive and threatening” 
and notes that it thinks it unlikely that its staff would be willing to attend her property. Here 
Creation is equally liable as the Supplier here jointly and severally. It is at liberty to complete 
these repairs as it sees fit using whichever suppliers of such services that it wishes to. 
However bearing in mind the obvious breakdown in relations between Ms H and the Supplier 
juxtaposed with the incident free visit of the independent inspector who compiled the 
independent report, I think Creation might wish to consider using a different firm to remedy 
these matters other than the original Supplier. Ms H has described her mental health 
conditions to this service and Creation are aware of this. So it should consider carefully who 
it engages to make these repairs in these circumstances bearing in mind Ms H’s health.
Distress and inconvenience
Ms H feels the Investigator’s suggested £300 for distress and inconvenience is insufficient. 
Here Creation is only responsible for breach of contract and misrepresentation by the 
Supplier. It is not responsible for the customer service provided by the Supplier or any of the 
challenging interactions between Ms H and the Supplier. This is a key point here and for 
clarity I must emphasise that Creation is only responsible for the distress and inconvenience 
it causes in the handling of Ms H’s claim to it. I agree with our Investigator’s conclusions 
regarding the distress and inconvenience caused by Creation’s decision not to get an 
independent report originally considering the evidence available at that time. But Creation 
isn’t responsible for distress and inconvenience it didn’t cause. I’ve considered the timeline 
of events and I can see that an independent inspection was agreed in August 2022, but this 
report wasn’t issued until February 2023. I can see Creation chasing the independent report 
repeatedly throughout this period and I’ve seen evidence of this significant delay being due 
to the Independent inspectors having failed initially in its own processes. So Creation isn’t 
responsible for this time delay.
I can also see there being a number of weeks passing between Creation’s letter in 
November 2021 and Ms H bringing her complaint to this service. And similarly there are 
months between our Investigator’s assessment which I consider to be fair in the round and 
this decision. And these timespans of delay are not Creation’s doing either.
I must also consider that although there are clear failings with the installation of the kitchen, 
it is not wholly inoperable as a kitchen. It is usable to some degree and the preparation of 
meals are possible throughout the time from installation until now, albeit not to the standards 
of being installed with reasonable care and skill as the report describes.
So for all the above reasons I do not consider that I need to increase the award of £300 that 
Creation must pay Ms H to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused here. It is fair and 
reasonable to my mind.
Putting things right
I direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, on receipt of confirmation that Ms H has accepted 
this final decision, to:

Carry out the recommendations identified in the independent report of 12 February 
2023

Clear the arrears of £2,489.04 that has accrued due to 12 missed payments. This will
reduce the finance amount to be paid to £9,010.96.

Clear Ms H’s credit file of any negative entries logged in relation to this credit 
agreement.

Give Ms H a new 12-month deferment period from when the kitchen is repaired

Pay Ms H £300 for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
On receipt of notice of Ms H’s acceptance of this decision it should liaise promptly with Ms H 
in order to organise access to the kitchen in order to prepare for and complete the required 
remedial work.
The report makes clear the work should be completable within two days of works on site. Ms 
H has made clear that she wants the kitchen fixed promptly. And finality in this long drawn 
out matter is in the interests of both parties. Accordingly the twelve-month deferment period 
can begin at the completion of the remedial works and must have been completed by 15 
October 2024 at the latest in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd. I direct it to remedy the matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4070695
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim he’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”).
Mr W has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr W throughout.
What happened
In August 2013 Mr W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£8,000 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The loan amount was for £7,900 
and the total amount payable under the agreement was £12,564.53 and it was due to be 
paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £108.87.
Mr W told us in 2022 that he was still paying the loan at that time. I have seen no evidence 
that the loan did not go to term.
Creation told us that they received Mr W’s letter of complaint on 23 August 2020. In the 
complaint Mr W explained that he considered he had a valid claim against it under s75 
due to misrepresentation and breach of contract by P. Mr W said he’d been told he could 
be entitled to a solar panel system at no cost to him. He says he was told the system 
would be fully self-funding. 
In summary, Mr W says:

P’s representative misled him that the system would pay for itself within 8 years 
and then he would have many years of reduced electricity bills which would be 
profit.

P told him the FIT payments and savings he would make would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments.

P told Mr W he would save in excess of £10,000 due to the supply of LED light 
bulbs.

P told Mr W that installing solar panels would reduce the council tax bill by 50%.

He was induced into the agreement by false statements from P. He wouldn’t have
entered into the agreement had it not been for those statements.
On the basis of the above Mr W said he had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. 
To resolve the claim and complaint, Mr W requested that Creation should make a 
payment to settle the matter.
Creation told us that they received Mr W’s letter of complaint on 23 August 2020. Creation 
did not provide a final response letter to the complaint initially and so the complaint was 
referred to this service in March 2021. Creation issued a final response letter in November 
2021. Creation rejects Mr W’s complaint on the basis it was made out of time based on 
their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. Creation did not comment on the s75 claim 
so far as it concerned a breach of contract. Whilst the complaint to Creation did not 
mention Section 140A (s140A) of the CCA, in bringing the complaint to this service, Mr W 
raised an alleged failure under that part of the Act. Creation has not responded to the 
s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response.
Mr W wasn’t happy with the response to the complaint so asked us to review the 
complaint.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred. Consequently, 
Creation believe that it has no liability to Mr W under said Act and so they have no liability 
under s75 of the CCA.
I have taken this to mean that Creation have rejected Mr W’s s75 claim for 
misrepresentation on the basis it was ‘time-barred’ taking into account the Limitation Act 
1980 (the ‘LA’). 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 8 March 
2021, which is the date when Mr W’s representative sent details of his complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr W’s s75 complaint. I will then 
consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr W’s complaint in relation to an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account s140A of the CCA, before turning to the merits of 
the complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr W brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 8 March 2021 before 
the final response letter had been issued but many months after raising the complaint with 
Creation. The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr 
W’s s75 claim on 8 November 2021. So, his complaint in relation to the s75 claim was 
brought in time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction because Mr W was not happy 
with the answer in the final response letter.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr W’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Mr W is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship was still running on 10 May 2022 as Mr W told us he 
was still paying the loan on that date. The complaint in relation to s140A was referred to 
the ombudsman service before that date, on 8 March 2021. So, the s140A complaint was 
brought less than six years after the event complained of and has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about an alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into during August 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that P (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 23 August 2020, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against P for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around August 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by P can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming P to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations P carried out direct with Mr W.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider P’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Mr W.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Mr W and P.
Mr W told us he was informed he could be entitled to have a Solar System at absolutely 
no cost to him. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Mr W’s allegation he was told it would be self-funding. Apart from the 
loan agreement I haven’t seen any documentation from the time of the sale that speaks to 
the complaint points. 
The loan agreement sets out Mr W’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. 
I must consider all the submissions made to me in a complaint. But I am also able to 
consider other relevant information. In this case I have considered that P were found to be 
in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code in September 2014. And one of the 
breaches was found to be that consumers may have been misled about the costs of the 
loan being met fully by income generated from the solar panels. So, this seems to support 
what Mr W told us; that the cost of the solar panels would be fully met from the income 
and savings they could generate. So, this does not undermine the testimony Mr W has 
given us.
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr W had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before P contacted him. Mr W has said he only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr W would have agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly 
outgoings would increase.
Mr W told us that P told him the income from the solar panel system would pay off the 
agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr W’s testimony seemed 
persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that 
Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that P did tell Mr W the scheme would be self-funding.  On balance, I find Mr W’s account 
to be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,306.44 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Mr W’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
he’s achieved this benefit. The FIT statements I’ve seen do not seem to be complete but 
they don’t seem to suggest that Mr W was achieving the kind of benefits that would have 
made the loan self-funding. I’ve not been supplied copies of Mr W’s electricity bills, so I 
don’t know what savings he made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s more likely 
than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Mr W made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely P gave Mr W a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Mr W was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr W went into the transaction. Either
way, P’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Mr W’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr W in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Mr W and Creation to have been unfair.
Mr W has had to pay more than he expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Mr W otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Mr W fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr W and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr W a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr W’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr W received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr W received by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. If Creation requires, Mr W will need to supply up to date 
details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to
Creation. Creation can use assumptions when information is not available – if, for
example, the electricity company has gone out of business. 
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr W made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr W’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr W should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr W paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr W paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and
meter readings Creation should pay Mr W C + F
I agree Creation’s failure to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr W
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr W’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4072605
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
On 5 November 2013, Mrs S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company 
I’ll call “M” using a 5-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mrs S complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ 
(‘FIT’) payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, despite buying a 
booster in October 2017, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs S on 8 December 2020. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 5 November 2021. Creation considered Mrs S had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs S brought her complaint to this service on 21 November 2021 as 
she was unhappy with Creation’s response and Mrs S asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Mrs S’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs S and 
Creation. 
On 16 March 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs S keep the system and 
Creation take into account what Mrs S had paid so far, along with the benefits she 
received, and make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mrs S accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 31 March 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from 
it. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation have now had over a year to respond to the 
investigator’s findings had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs S’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs S’s s.75 
claim on 5 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs S brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 
November 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs S. Here the relationship 
came to an end when the loan was repaid on 14 November 2018. The loan ran to its term. 
And Mrs S referred her complaint to the ombudsman service on 21 November 2021, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 6 November 2013. Mrs S brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 8 December 2020 that is more than six years after she entered into an 
agreement with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not 
accepted the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs 
S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mrs S has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Mrs S has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mrs S to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mrs S on 5 November 2013 and by Creation on 6 
November 2013, sets out Mrs S’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mrs S’s name to solely 
purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs S to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs S would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
I have considered that P were found to be in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code in September 2014. And one of the breaches was found to be that consumers may 
have been misled about the costs of the loan being met fully by income generated from 
the solar panels. So, this seems to support what Mrs S told us; that the cost of the solar 
panels would be fully met from the income and savings they could generate. So, this does 
not undermine the testimony Mrs S has given us.
Whilst I accept that the above represents findings based on different cases the RECC 
were looking at, the findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas 
that relate to Mrs S’s complaint around the time that she was sold her system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs S said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Mrs S left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £86, payable for five years. And I have considered that Mrs S told us 
that at that time she was retired. Given her lack of prior interest and the financial burden 
she took on, I find Mrs S’s account of what she was told by M to be credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would 
have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the reassurances she’s 
said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs S’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,041.48 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs 
S’s system was not performing as expected but Mrs S’s system did not produce 
sufficiently to meet the loan repayments. When it became clear to Mrs S that she wasn’t 
receiving he expected levels of performance, she bought a booster for £2,000. Looking at 
the FIT payments summary, it appears the booster became active in roughly October 
2017 – when the system’s productivity went up by approximately 10%. However, even 
then, the evidence suggests the solar system was not self-funding.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Mrs S’s system would not have produced benefits at 
this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the 
amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs S’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the 
timescales stated verbally to Mrs S.
Considering Mrs S’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mrs S a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs S’s account to be 
plausible and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs S was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs S went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs S’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mrs S in respect 
of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mrs S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs S a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mrs S’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs S received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs S received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mrs S may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Creation has explained Mrs S settled the loan agreement on 14 November 2018 after it 
had run to term.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mrs S made towards the loan up until she repaid
it – A

Use Mrs S’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received up until she repaid the loan (minus 
10% of the financial benefits of the FIT payments provided from October 2017 
onwards, to reflect those benefits attributable to the booster) – B

Use B to recalculate what Mrs S should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse her the difference between what she
actually repaid (A) and what she should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Reimburse C to Mrs S. 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs S
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs S’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4079264
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk 
(‘Creation’) in relation to a solar panel system he purchased using a fixed-sum loan from 
Creation. 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call “M”, 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr S contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service because he was unhappy about his 
purchase of the system and didn’t know what to do about it. He said that he was interested 
in reducing his outgoings prior to retirement and was told by M, which cold-called looking to 
sell solar panels, that the system would pay for itself – in effect the system would be free 
because the financial benefits of the system would cover the loan repayments making it self-
funding. However, this hadn’t happened and he’s actually worse off since the financial 
benefits have not covered the loan repayments. 
We asked Creation to look into this matter. Creation dismissed Mr S’s concerns since it said 
under the Financial Conduct Authority’s Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules Mr S’s complaint 
was time-barred. Creation said the system was sold to him more than six years before he 
raised the issue, and more than three years after he ought to have realised there was a 
problem. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S asked us to look into what had happened.
Our Investigator considered Mr S’s complaint, they said that:

Mr S could make a claim under Section 140A of the CCA (s.140A) because the 
complaint related to his relationship with Creation which was still ongoing, and he’d 
have six years after the end of the relationship (when the loan agreement ends) to 
make such a claim alleging the relationship was unfair on him – so the complaint was 
not time-barred under the DISP Rules. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation due to what M told Mr S about the system. 
Our Investigator recommended that Mr S keep the system and Creation adjust the loan to 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding – that he’d pay no more than the benefit 
he is likely to receive over the term of the loan. 
Creation did not respond to our Investigator within a reasonable time. Creation had some 
concerns about our approach to this type of complaint, which it has discussed with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service more generally. But Creation is aware of our approach and 
our reasons for this and has received final decisions on similar complaints which explain our 
approach in detail. So, I’ve been asked to make a decision on this complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint. The event complained of is 
Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continues, in an alleged unfair 
relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship was ongoing at the time the complaint was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service, so the complaint has been brought in time for 
the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the Court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
Court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider, as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship, those 
negotiations, and arrangements, by M – for which Creation were responsible under s.56 – 
when considering whether it is likely Creation acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr S has said that he was interested in reducing his outgoings prior to retirement and M told 
him that the system would achieve that goal – in effect the system would be free because 
the financial benefits would cover the loan repayments. However, this hasn’t happened, and 
Mr S’s outgoings have increased due to the financial benefits of the system being less than 
the monthly loan repayments. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr S to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system would not be self-funding, since this 
could be important when thinking about how plausible and persuasive Mr S’s recollection is. 
The loan agreement sets out what Mr S agreed to pay for the system:

Purchase price
£9,095.00

Deposit 
£0.00

Interest charge
£5,087.20

Arrangement fee
£135.00

120 repayments of 
£119.31 per month

Total amount payable £14,317.20
So, the loan agreement made clear what Mr S had to pay for the system. 
The contract and other sales documents given to Mr S set out the following information 
about the system (along with some technical and contractual information which is not 
relevant to this decision):

Purchase price 
£9,095.00

Expected generation 2,617 kWh per year
The sales documents do not provide any description or explanation of the financial benefits 
of the system. So, it appears that Mr S would’ve had to rely entirely upon what he M’s sales 
representative told him. 
I’ve looked at a copy of M’s website from July 2013 to see if it can shed any light on how M 
sold solar panels around that time. It does not provide any information about Photo-Voltaic 
Solar Panel installations or their benefits. So, there is nothing there to make me question 
what Mr S has said. 
Ultimately, there is no compelling evidence to suggest that M would not have promoted the 
system as self-funding. Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr S has said. 
Yet, with no prior interest, Mr S agreed to purchase the system using an interest-bearing 
loan, with a monthly repayment of around £119, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on, and the lack of other evidence to call into 
question what he recalls, I find Mr S’s account of what M told him to be plausible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had M not assured him that the system would be self-funding 
and would reduce his outgoings. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,352 per year. Given the reasonable assumptions that might 
have been used around the time of sale (for FIT rates, electricity unit rates and inflation), I do 
not think that M could reasonably have believed that purchasing the system using the loan 
would reduce Mr S’s outgoings in the short or medium term. 
By my calculations, using reasonable assumptions at the time of sale it would have been 
reasonable to say the financial benefits of the system would exceed the total payable under 
the loan agreement after around 17 years, but that for the duration of the loan Mrs S’s 
outgoings would increase due to the loan repayments exceeding the financial benefits the 
system could provide. Had Mr S been told that, I do not think he would’ve agreed to the 
purchase. Mr S’s system has been performing better than expected in terms of electricity 
generated, but despite this it still does not appear that the system will pay for itself within the 
loan term. 
So, I have concluded that M’s statements about the system’s financial benefits 
reducing Mr S’s outgoings were not true. M’s representative ought reasonably to have 
been aware that Mr S’s system would not have produced benefits at the level required 
to achieve a reduction in Mr S’s outgoings during the term of the loan. 
Considering Mr S’s account about what he was told, the documentation he was shown at the 
time of the sale, and the lack of evidence to contradict what he has said, I think it likely M 
gave Mr S a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system. 
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr S was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to meet or 
exceed the loan repayments during the term of the loan. But, even if they did not have that 
effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr S went into the transaction. 
Either way, M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr S’s point of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr S in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that, because of this, the relationship between Mr S 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan that Mr S 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr S a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr S’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr S received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so Mr S pays no more than that. 
To do that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr S received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr S will need to supply up to date details, 
where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to 
Creation. For periods where Mr S cannot provide this information, Creation can make 
reasonable assumptions – Creation is aware of our expectations in this regard. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s unreasonable dismissal of Mr S’s complaint caused Mr S 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr S £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr S’s complaint. 
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk should: 

Calculate the total payments Mr S has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr S’s bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr S should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr S 

Use Mr S’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D 

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan. 

Pay Mr S an additional £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience cause 
by Creation dismissing Mr S’s claim when it ought to have been evident to Creation 
the complaint was not time-barred. 
*Where Mr S cannot provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk should complete 
the calculation using known and reasonably assumed benefits.
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation.Co.Uk considers that it’s 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mr S how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he 
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4081568
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr O has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr O has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr O throughout. 
What happened
In July 2013 Mr O entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a £8,845 
solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount payable under 
the agreement was £13,929.60 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments 
of £116.08. 
In August 2021 Mr O sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said P told him he’d effectively get paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding. He said P told him his energy bills would go down and the system was maintenance 
free with a 40-year life expectancy. 
Mr O said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr O decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Mr O the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought P 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr O 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim. 
Mr O agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr O. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr O. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr O says he was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr O says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr O to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement.
I’ve been supplied a copy of a purchase order I can see Mr O signed, but I can’t see the date 
of it. The purchase order sets out the total cost of the system but doesn’t include any 
estimates of the savings Mr O would make. And it doesn’t set out the interest that’s charged 
under the credit agreement. I’ve not seen there was an easy way for Mr O to compare his 
total costs against the financial benefits he was allegedly being promised.
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr O had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before P contacted him. Mr O has said he only agreed to the purchase because P told him 
the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr O would have agreed to the installation if his monthly outgoings 
would increase significantly. 
Given, from what I’ve seen, the contract doesn’t contain information about the benefits, Mr O 
would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the panels would 
cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the system.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
Renewable Energy Consumer Code and ensures its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated P’s conduct 2014, and it determined that P was in breach of several 
sections of the code including, but not limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections 
relate to requiring members not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and 
providing clear and accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold.
While I appreciate the findings from RECC were for different cases I think they indicate there 
were conduct concerns in the areas related to Mr O’s complaint around the time he was sold 
the system. 
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,400 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr O’s system 
achieved anywhere near the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the 
term of the agreement. I therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear the system wouldn’t 
have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the fixed sum loan agreement 
during its term. 
I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr O’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mr O’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him.
Considering Mr O’s account about what he was told, the documentation; the RECC findings; 
and that Creation hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr O a false and 
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden he took on I find Mr O’s account of what P told him credible 
and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would 
have seen this purchase appealing had P not given the reassurances he said he received. 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr O expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr O went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr O’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr O in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr O 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr O and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr O a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr O’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr O received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr O received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr O 
will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current 
meter readings to Creation. 
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement will now be paid off, I think there’s only one 
viable option for my directions. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the s.140A claim has also caused Mr O some 
further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator 
is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mr O also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr O’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr O’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr O has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Mr O’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr O should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr O

Pay Mr O £100 compensation
*Where Mr O is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4082557
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr A acquired a used car under a regulated hire purchase agreement 
financed by Creation. The car was three years old, had a mileage of about 20,000 miles, and 
had a cash price of £37,500. Mr A paid a deposit of £3,000, and the balance was financed 
under the agreement (under which he had to make 60 monthly payments of £662.77).
The following month, Mr A called the dealership to report two faults. He said a rattling noise 
was coming from the dashboard, and the engine management light (EML) was on. Mr A has 
also told us that, at the time, there were two other faults: the acceleration pedal was shaking 
and the brake pedal was squeaking. The dealer told him that as the car was still under 
warranty, he should go to one of the manufacturer’s garages.
Mr A took the car to a garage in January 2022. That garage replaced the NOx sensor, which 
stopped the EML coming on. But it told him that the rattling noise would cost over £1,200 to 
diagnose, as it would not be covered by the warranty. So Mr A did not agree to that issue 
being investigated further, and the car was returned to him in February.
In June 2022, Mr A took the car back to the garage because of an issue with the gearbox, 
and also a new sound, a buzzing noise. The gearbox issue was repaired, but not the buzzing 
noise. However, the garage said that neither of these issues were faults. In its opinion, the 
gearbox issue was the result of the selector lever button sticking because it had been 
pressed unintentionally. And the buzzing noise was only the steering lock turning on and off 
when the ignition was turned on and off.
In July 2022, Mr A took the car to the garage for a third time. Some parts in the dashboard 
were refitted, and this stopped the rattling noise.
Also in July, Mr A brought this complaint to our service. He complained about the buzzing 
noise, the gearbox issue – which he says is still occurring – and a new problem: he said that 
while driving on the motorway, the steering wheel had been going from left to right by itself. 
As he had not yet complained to Creation, his complaint was referred to Creation in 
accordance with FCA rules. Meanwhile, in September, Mr A emailed Creation about the 
steering wheel problem. And in December he stopped driving the car because he had lost 
confidence in it.
After Creation had been allowed eight weeks to investigate this complaint, one of our 
investigators looked into it. She upheld this complaint. She thought that the car must have 
been faulty when it was supplied to Mr A. Although the usual remedy would be to allow the 
dealer one attempt at repairing the car, she thought that would not be suitable in this case, 
because the dealer had already had long enough to repair the car, and also because she 
didn’t know if another repair would be effective or proportionate. So instead, she 
recommended that Mr A be allowed to reject the car, with nothing else to pay under the hire 
purchase agreement. She said that his deposit and five percent of his monthly rental 
payments should be refunded (with interest), he should be paid £300 for his inconvenience, 
and the agreement should be removed from his credit file.
Neither party was satisfied with that opinion. Mr A wanted more compensation. And Creation 
insisted that the dealer should still be allowed an attempt to repair the car. It argued that 
Mr A had only taken the car to a third party to be repaired, so the dealer should be allowed a 
chance to fix it. If the warranty did not cover the repairs then he should have taken it to the 
dealer in the first place. And it said Mr A shouldn’t have been driving the car between 
February and December 2022, because if there was still a fault then continuing to drive the 
car might have made it worse.
Since no agreement could be reached, this case was referred to me for an ombudsman’s 
decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen the invoices for all of the repairs I have described above, and none of them refer 
to either the brake pedal or the accelerator pedal being repaired or even looked at, either in 
January and February 2022 or at any other time. And I’ve seen a chain of emails between 
Mr A and the garage, and these don’t mention any problem with the pedals either. So I’m not 
persuaded that there is a real issue with the pedals. The only evidence of any faults in 2021 
and early 2022 relates to the EML and the rattling noise. Both of those have since been 
fixed.
I accept the garage’s diagnosis that the buzzing noise and the gearbox issue were not faults. 
There is no expert evidence to the contrary, and so I have no reason to doubt what the 
garage says about this. I accept that the gearbox issue has recurred since it was repaired, 
but that is something that Mr A would have to take up with the garage. Creation is not 
responsible for it.
Creation would only be responsible for the steering wheel issue if it was already present or 
beginning to develop when the car was supplied to Mr A. Mr A first raised this matter eight 
months after the car was supplied to him. He describes this fault as happening suddenly. 
I think there is not enough evidence before me for me to make an informed decision about 
whether this fault was already developing eight months earlier. So I am not persuaded that 
this is a fault for which Creation is liable.
If Mr A still maintains that there are faults with the steering and / or the pedals, then he is 
welcome to take the car to the dealer to be looked at. If the result is that faults are identified, 
and that they are faults which were probably already present or developing in November 
2021, then Creation will be liable for the cost of repairing them. But at present I am unable to 
conclude that Creation has done anything wrong, other than to supply Mr A with a car which 
had a faulty NOx sensor and a rattly dashboard. I think that £300 is fair compensation for 
that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A reported some new faults which had come to light since my provisional decision. I have 
seen no evidence about those, but as they are new matters I think that they would have to 
form the subject of a new complaint, to give Creation a chance to investigate them. Mr A did 
not respond to the substance of my provisional decision, and neither did Creation. So there 
is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
pay Mr A £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4082688
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms A has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) 
administered a fixed sum loan agreement she’d taken out to purchase furniture. 
What happened
Ms A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in December 2021 to pay for 
furniture. The goods cost £1,363. And the agreement set out:
This is a 36 month agreement payable by a first instalment of £62.06 on 25/07/2022, 
followed by 34 monthly instalments of £62.06 payable on the same date of each succeeding 
month and a final instalment of £62.06 on 25/06/2025, or by paying £1363 before 
28/06/2022 (“Special Offer date”).
The pre-contract credit information, and important information sheet also set out that Ms A 
needed to pay £1,363 by the Special Offer date or she’d need to pay a total of £2,234.16. 
Creation also wrote to Ms A to tell her when the Special Offer date ended in December 
2021. 
I understand the goods were delivered in January 2022. 
Creation wrote to Ms A in May 2022 to remind her about the end of the Special Offer date. 
Ms A didn’t pay off the agreement by 28 June 2022, so interest was payable. She spoke to 
Creation in July 2022 to complain:

The reminder had been sent to her previous address and not her current one. The 
goods were delivered to her new address. 

There were two agreements showing on her online account with Creation which was 
incorrect. One was for an order that had been cancelled.
Ms A made payment of £1,363 on 13 July 2022. And it looks like she paid £62.06 monthly 
until the agreement was settled. 
Creation responded to the complaint to say interest was payable as Ms A had not settled the 
agreement by the Special Offer date. It said Ms A had not notified it of her current address, 
and that correspondence was sent to the address it had on file. It also said it had updated 
her online account to only show her active agreement and that it would look into any 
evidence she had about error messages on the dates she attempted to pay. 
Ms A referred the complaint to our service. She also complained the online account is 
misleading and asked Creation to provide a breakdown of how the interest is calculated and 
how much interest she owed until the date the amount was settled. 
Ms A says the matter impacted her financially and mentally. And to resolve the complaint 
she requested the interest is waived and she’s refunded the interest she’d already paid. 
Our investigator looked into things but didn’t uphold the complaint. He said Creation adhered 
to its own terms and conditions with regards to applying interest. He said there wasn’t 
evidence Creation had been given Ms A’s new address to write to. And that the online 
account showed a payment due date in July 2022 because the Special Offer date had 
already passed. 
Ms A didn’t agree with the findings. She said the investigator hadn’t covered off all her 
complaint points. She reiterated she told the supplier of her address change. She said she 
hadn’t received any paperwork from Creation. And that the website was misleading by only 
showing one payment date, i.e., the date in July after the Special Offer date had passed.
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.  
I asked our investigator to ask for further information from Creation. Creation didn’t have the 
call from when Ms A spoke to it to make payment. But it gave further contact notes and 
details of how the settlement was calculated. 
We asked Ms A: 

Why she used her old address when applying for credit. 

If she had evidence she’d provided her new address to the supplier or Creation. 

If there was any impact caused by having the second account open for the cancelled 
order. 

When did she receive the terms and conditions. 

If she had anything else she’d like us to consider. 
Ms A said her understanding during the sales process was that the credit application 
wouldn’t have been successful if she’d used her old address – she’d only moved address 
around two months before. But she provided the supplier information with her new address. 
Ms A says she doesn’t know whether the second account impacted her or whether it has 
been removed from her credit file. And she says she wasn’t able to find any written 
documentation from when the sale was made. She says she can’t remember how she 
obtained electronic copies. But that her main complaint is based around the confusion 
caused by the two dates.
 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any 
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Ms A 
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s 
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Ms A has complained about the way Creation administered her fixed sum loan agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. It’s important to note I’m considering a 
complaint against Creation, and not the supplier. I need to consider what Creation is 
responsible for as a provider of financial services. 
I’m sorry to hear the matter has impacted Ms A financially and mentally. And I thank her for 
taking the time to bring the complaint to our service. 
It’s not in dispute that Ms A didn’t make the payment by the Special Offer date. The 
agreement sets out that interest will be added from the date the agreement was signed if this 
wasn’t done. So, as a starting point, I don’t think Creation acted unfairly by applying interest 
when it did. 
I’ve next thought about whether there’s any reason why Creation should waive the interest 
that’s required. Has it acted unfairly in some way that means it shouldn’t be payable?
Ms A has said she used her old address on the credit application because she thought it was 
for credit references only. And she’s said she gave the supplier her new address. She’s not 
been able to provide us evidence from the supplier. But I take her point if the furniture was 
delivered to her new address. However, what I have to bear in mind is that the agreement 
Ms A signed set out how long the interest free period ran, and when she’d need to pay off 
the loan by to avoid interest. So even if she wasn’t sent the reminder letter (which I don’t 
have the evidence to demonstrate Creation made a mistake sending it where it did), I still 
have to consider Ms A agreed to the terms relating to the interest free period. Ms A has 
supplied a copy of the agreement and other correspondence relating to the period as well, 
so I think she had the information available. 
I appreciate Ms A is saying it was confusing having a first payment date showing as 25 July 
2022 on her online account. But this date was correct if she was going to pay the agreement 
by monthly instalments. The documentation she’s supplied said that the other option was to 
pay £1,363 by the special offer date – 28 June 2022. 
Ms A also queried why she was asked to pay around a further £300 to settle the agreement 
in July 2022 in addition to the £1,363 that she’d borrowed. Because she’d missed the special 
offer date, this was the interest that had accrued up until that point. So I don’t find this was 
incorrect. But I can understand why she’d be unhappy if this wasn’t explained properly.
I’ve finally thought about the second account Ms A has said was incorrectly recorded on her 
credit file for a cancelled order. Creation says it would remove this in its final response letter, 
which is what I’d expect. I’ve not been shown sufficient evidence that having the account 
open caused any detriment to Ms A, so I’m not going to direct Creation to take any action in 
relation to it. 
In summary I can understand why Ms A is disappointed. She’s paid interest on an 
agreement she intended to pay off interest free. But I don’t consider she’s paid interest as a 
result of Creation having done something wrong. Taking all the circumstances into account, I 
don’t find I have the grounds to direct Creation to take further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4084657
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a car he acquired, using finance from Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In early 2022, Mr T took out a finance agreement for a used car, with a cash price of 
£32,000. However, he’s explained he soon experienced a number of problems with it, 
including issues with the tyres, roof and alarm, in addition to an attempt to repair the reverse 
cameras. Although the dealership referred him to the warranty provider, this didn’t cover all 
of the costs.
Mr T wanted to reject the car, as he didn’t think it was of satisfactory quality. Unhappy with 
Creation’s response to this, he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He was satisfied, on balance, that 
the car was faulty. This was based on the relatively low mileage of the car, and the clear 
presence of issues as evidenced by an inspection and acceptance of a warranty claim. He 
also thought the faults had been present, or developing, at the point of supply – as they’d 
been reported so soon after by Mr T. Specifically, he thought the car wasn’t sufficiently 
durable. He considered rejection to be a fair remedy, as repairs had already been attempted 
on the reverse camera – and there were also numerous other issues, all coming to light 
within around two months of supply.
He noted that Mr T had generally had use of the car, up until December 2022, when the 
battery died because of ongoing issues with the malfunctioning alarm. So he thought it fair 
that Mr T be reimbursed his monthly repayments from that point. He also thought it fair he be 
reimbursed for inspection costs of £144. He felt that Mr T had also suffered distress and 
inconvenience, and should be paid a total of £250 to reflect this (including the £100 already 
offered by Creation).
Upon further consideration, our investigator also thought that Mr T should be refunded the 
cost of his warrant, as this is a consequential loss. Although there may have been some 
minor benefit to Mr T, he’ll have no further use of the warranty, and he can’t cancel it as he’s 
already made a claim under it.
Creation disagreed, as it feels it did all it could to try to assist Mr T. The complaint’s now 
been passed to me.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator, and for the same reasons. It’s clear there are 
issues with the car, and I’m satisfied the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when supplied. 
This is because so many issues presented themselves within only a few months. Although 
the car was second hand, it was a luxury vehicle, with a low mileage. For all of these issues 
to manifest so soon, I’m satisfied, on balance that it wasn’t of satisfactory quality, and Mr T 
should fairly be allowed to reject it, and be paid the losses incurred, as described by the 
investigator. I’m also satisfied that he suffered distress and inconvenience, and £250 is a fair 
sum to reflect this. I appreciate that Creation says it tried to assist Mr T, but he was entitled 
to choose to pursue matters through our service.
Putting things right
To put things right, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further for Mr T to pay;

collect the car at no further cost to Mr T;

refund Mr T’s deposit/part exchange contribution of £5,000;

refund Mr T’s monthly repayments for the period from and including December 2022;

refund Mr T the investigation costs of £144;

refund the cost of Mr T’s warranty;

pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts, from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement;

pay a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (insofar 
as this hasn’t been paid already); and

remove any adverse information from Mr T’s credit file in relation to the agreement.
My final decision
It’s my final decision to uphold this complaint. I require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
take the actions set out above, in the section ‘Putting things right’.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4084681
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr F was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. The agreement was for £34,415 with 59 monthly repayments of £506.78, and a 
final payment of £516.78. At the time, the car was about seven years old, and the mileage 
was given as 44,977 miles.
Mr F said that he reported a number of issues to the supplying dealership in the first few 
months he had the car.  In April 2022 he reported that the brake warning light came on, and 
the car key didn’t always work. And he had to replace the windscreen wipers.
He said the ABS/speed sensor failed in June 2022.
He said that in July 2022 the key was still not working properly.
In July 2022 Mr F obtained a diagnostic report from a main dealer. He said it found that the 
mileage had been tempered with, the exhaust had been modified, there was an oil leak, the 
rear springs were corroded, the front lower ball joints had split, and low temperature in the 
coolant system.
The report also found the front bumper had been poorly repaired. Mr F said he was told this 
could’ve been after a front end collision. 
The report also found that the front strengthening plate was missing a number of bolts. It 
said this meant the car was unsafe to drive. 
Mr F said the garage also found the car’s power had been reduced due to a misfiring 
cylinder. 
He complained to Creation in August 2022 after he said the dealer was unhelpful.
Creation wrote to Mr F in October 2022 to say they weren’t able to complete their 
investigation into his complaint due to internal delays. So Mr F brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator was satisfied that the car wasn’t of a satisfactory quality when supplied. She 
said this was based on the video evidence provided, along with invoices, and the vehicle 
health check. She said there was no guarantee that repairs would resolve the issues with the 
car. So she said Mr F should be allowed to reject the car.
Creation didn’t respond to the investigator’s view, so the matter was passed to me for final 
decision.
I can see that Creation has now accepted the investigators assessment. But there has been 
further delays in resolving the complaint, and the car has still not been collected from Mr F.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.  
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr F was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, Creation 
are responsible. What’s satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would 
consider, given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale. 
Mr F reported faults with the car not long after Creation supplied it to him. I see that he 
attempted to resolve these with the supplying dealer. Frustrated with the response, he 
obtained his own diagnostic report, supplied by a main dealer.
I find that report persuasive. It details the issues that Mr F was complaining about. And it has 
uncovered more serious issues – so serious that he was unable to drive the car until it was 
fixed.
I don’t think it’s reasonable to expect a car to have such serious defects that mean it is 
unsafe to drive so soon after he got it. And it shouldn’t have been supplied with a modified 
exhaust that required replacement.
I’ve reviewed the video supplied with the diagnostic report and I’m satisfied that it shows 
evidence of a poor quality repair to the front bumper, and damage to the underside of the 
car.
I’ve seen nothing from Creation, or from the supplying dealer, that challenges or disputes the 
evidence supplied.
I’m satisfied that the car supplied to Mr F wasn’t of satisfactory quality as I think the issues 
identified in the diagnostic report were more likely than not to be present or developing at the 
point of supply. I say this because they were found less than three months after Creation 
supplied the car to Mr F.
Mr F has submitted persuasive evidence that the mileage on the car had been altered. But 
I’ve also seen the service records and MOT history supplied by the dealer that indicate they 
checked the mileage before supply.
Like our investigator, I’m not going to reach a conclusion on the disputed mileage because it 
doesn’t affect the outcome I’ve reached. 
Putting things right
I’m satisfied that Creation supplied Mr F with a car that wasn’t of satisfactory quality. A car 
that he hasn’t been able to drive since 26 July 2022. Given the potential seriousness of the 
issues, I’m not convinced that an affordable repair is feasible. And a reasonable time to carry 
out those repairs has passed. So Mr F has the right to reject the car under the CRA.
Mr F incurred extra costs arising from the supply of a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality. 
He had to replace a sensor, and he had to pay for his own diagnostic report. Creation should 
refund those costs.
Mr F has been caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience. He’s spent a considerable 
amount of effort and time seeking to get this matter resolved, corresponding with the 
supplying dealer and with Creations, and visiting garages to have faults checked and fixed. 
And Creation failed to respond promptly to his complaints. Leaving him further frustrated and 
paying more than £500 every month for a car he was unable to drive.
So, I direct Creation to:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse information 
from Mr F’s credit file about this agreement

collect the car at no further cost to Mr F, and without any further delay

refund to Mr F the deposit/part exchange contribution of £3,999 he paid*

refund to Mr F all payments made towards the agreement from 27 July 2022 to the 
date of settlement as he was unable to use the car from this point*

refund £196.48 for the replacement sensor and £49.50 for the diagnostic report *
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment 
to the time of reimbursement. If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr F how much it’s taken 
off. It should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
I remind Creation that it is their responsibility to ensure the actions I’ve described above are 
carried out promptly and without further delay.
My final decision
I uphold Mr F’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4089460
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr S has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and 
in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Mr S has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr S throughout.
What happened
On 16 August 2013, Mr S bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll 
call “M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr S complained to Creation, he said that he was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments, however that hasn’t happened, 
and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the 
sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
When he received no response from Creation, Mr S brought his complaint to this service 
on 18 October 2021. Creation issued a final response letter dated 22 October 2021. 
Creation considered Mr S had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of 
action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the 
complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr S asked us to review his complaint. 
An investigator considered Mr S’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr S and 
Creation. 
On 6 March 2023, the investigator recommended that Mr S keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Mr S had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Mr S accepted the investigator’s view. Creation told us on 27 March 2023 that it was 
seeking external legal counsel and asked for an extension, however we did not hear from 
it. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr S’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr S’s s.75 claim 
on 22 October 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mr S brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 October 2021. So, 
his complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr S. Here the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 18 October 2021, so 
the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 16 August 2013. Mr S brought his s.75 claim to 
Creation on 25 June 2021 that is more than six years after he entered into an agreement 
with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr 
S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr S has said that he was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would be 
fully paid for by the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
Mr S has said he was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any evidence 
he had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr S to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Mr S on 16 August 2013 and by Creation on 19 August 
2013, sets out Mr S’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of 
that. Looking at the loan agreement it specifies that the goods being purchased were solar 
panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was taken in Mr S’s name to solely purchase the system 
sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mr S to compare his total costs against the financial 
benefits he was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mr S would have looked to M’s representative to 
help him understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much he would benefit from the system in order for him to make a decision.
When thinking about the above I’m mindful of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (‘RECC’) against M. My understanding is that the RECC administers the 
renewable energy consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated M’s conduct. In June 2014, and later in December 2014, it
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.3. These two sections relate to requiring members
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers and providing clear and 
accurate information about the cost and benefits of the product sold. The findings were 
deemed to be serious enough that the company’s membership of the RECC was 
terminated. 
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC were looking at, the 
findings do suggest that there were conduct concerns in the areas that relate to Mr S’s 
complaint around the time that he was sold his system.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr S said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr S left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £132, payable for 10 years. And I have considered that Mr S told us 
that at that time he had a big mortgage and a young family. Given his lack of prior interest 
and the financial burden he took on, I find Mr S’s account of what he was told by M to be 
credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why 
he would have seen this purchase as appealing had he not been given the reassurances 
he’s said he received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr S’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,587 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mr S’s 
system was not performing as expected but his system was unlikely to produce that and 
Mr S’s testimony is that it didn’t.
So, these statements were not true. I think the salesman from M must reasonably have 
been aware that Mr S’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst 
there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as 
an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr S’s system would not 
produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated 
verbally to Mr S.
Considering Mr S’s account about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Mr S a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mr S’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr S was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr S went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Mr S’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr S in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mr S and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has 
had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he 
would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr S and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr S a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr S’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr S received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr S received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr S may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
S has sold the house and does not have access to much documentation from before this. 
Creation has explained Mr S settled the loan agreement in November 2021.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr S made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr S’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr S should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr S paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr S paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mr S C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr S
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr S’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4102874
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with Creation Consumer Finance
Ltd, who I’ll call “Creation”.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M and I have every sympathy for his position, but I’m afraid I don’t
think I have sufficient evidence this agreement was misrepresented to him. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our
service is able to look into complaints about it.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes
out a credit agreement.
So, If Mr M was given a false statement of fact (or law) by the broker and if that false
statement was a significant reason why he entered into the agreement, I may think the
agreement had been misrepresented to him and that Creation needed to put things right.
Mr M says he always intended to pay for the car in full and was persuaded by the broker to
buy it now, rather than in a couple of weeks, as they told him he could subsequently pay off
the finance agreement and he’d only be responsible for the interest accrued in the
meantime.
It's clear he was intending to pay off the agreement in full, as after he entered into the
finance agreement he sold his other car and contacted Creation to pay off the agreement.
But in order for me to be satisfied the finance agreement was misrepresented, I would need
to be persuaded there was evidence Mr M was told what he testifies he was told and hadn’t
merely misinterpreted the advice. The broker hasn’t accepted that they gave Mr M that
advice. So, the two parties’ testimonies are at odds with each other. However, the finance
documentation clearly sets out Mr M’s termination rights. I think it’s reasonable to expect
Mr M to have read those documents and, on balance, I think the evidence I have suggests
he should have been aware there would be early settlement fees applied if he ended the
agreement outside of the 14 day cooling off window.
I’m not therefore persuaded the agreement was misrepresented to Mr M and I’m not
expecting to tell Creation to take any further action.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation didn’t respond to my provisional decision, but Mr M did. He said:
“…you can clearly see that I intended to pay the money as I paid off in full what I believed 
was owed. If I thought any different I would have not entered into the agreement with the 
dealership or I would have ensured it was paid within 14 days. Why would I delay by 1 week 
just to pay the extra interest?” and “Nowhere does it say that after 14 days I would be liable 
to pay the full amount of the interest, it just says about the cooling off period, this is not clear 
or precise and is miss-leading”.
Mr M added “…why has creation taken and held my money and not shown any monthly 
payments against the loan? You can see on an email I have sent them asking them to 
allocate the money against my monthly instalments to which they have not done.
This has now massively and negatively affected my credit score, potentially causing me 
credit issues for the future.” And “they have held onto around £26,000 of my money for 
approx. 1 year now without allocating against any payments. I would like to ask them and 
yourself how I can charge them interest for holding onto this money without resolve?”
He said he was disappointed in this outcome as …it had caused him “stress and anxiety” 
and had damaged his credit score.
I agree that it seems Mr M was always intending to pay off his agreement but as I explained 
in my provisional decision, I would need to be persuaded there was evidence he was given a 
false statement of fact and hadn’t merely misinterpreted the dealer’s advice. And I’ve not 
been provided with sufficient information to persuade me of that.
I don’t agree that payment required to settle the agreement after the cooling off period is 
unclear. It’s set out in section 10 of the terms and conditions.
I understand Mr M’s concerns if the payment he’s made hasn’t been allocated at all to his 
account, but this Service isn’t able to consider a complaint until the business has considered 
it and I can’t see Mr M has referred that aspect of his complaint to Creation yet. He’ll need to 
do that first but if the complaint isn’t resolved to his satisfaction he may then be able to refer 
it to this Service.
And, whilst I understand the stress and anxiety that Mr M has clearly experienced here, I 
don’t think it would be fair for me to decide there was sufficient evidence the agreement was 
misrepresented to him, or that Creation therefore needed to put things right.
I’ve not therefore been provided with information that has led me to change my provisional 
decision and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4105111
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr B complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd is asking him to pay for a laptop he 
didn’t receive. Mr B is represented by another party but for ease of reference I have referred 
to Mr B throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr B ordered a laptop on 9 November 2020 which was to be financed through a credit facility 
with Creation. The laptop was due to be delivered on 10 November 2020. Mr B says the 
laptop wasn’t delivered and he made several attempts to contact the retailer about this but 
couldn’t make contact. He says he used the online chat facility, and the advisers couldn’t say 
why his delivery hadn’t been made and said there wasn’t a record of the order being placed. 
Mr B says that he gave up chasing the order and placed an order elsewhere for a different 
laptop and didn’t think any more about this issue. But 11 months later he was contacted 
about payment for the laptop he hadn’t received. He raised this with the retailer and then 
with Creation. 
Creation issued a final response letter in September 2022. It said that it received a call from 
Mr B on 21 January 2022 on which it was explained that it required a notice from the retailer 
if there were changes required to an agreement. It said it contacted the retailer and it 
confirmed on 26 January that the agreement should not be cancelled, and that Mr B needed 
to refer to the retailer directly. It said that it had done nothing wrong by continuing with its 
collections process and that the account was eventually passed to a third party to collect on 
its behalf.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. He noted 
the limited information available given and the time that had passed but said that on balance 
he thought it likely Mr B had cancelled the laptop order and so shouldn’t now be charged for 
this.
Creation didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. It contacted the delivery company to see if 
further evidence could be provided but unfortunately it no longer had the records available. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence provided is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is what I consider to most likely have 
happened based on the information provided and the wider circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr B placed an order for a laptop that was to be financed through his credit facility with 
Creation. The credit facility included a ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ element which meant Mr B had a 
12 month interest free period in which payments didn’t need to be made for the laptop. This 
period was due to expire on 9 November 2021 after which Mr B would be required to make 
monthly repayments of around £33. 
The specified delivery date for the laptop was 10 November 2020. Mr B says the laptop 
wasn’t delivered on 10 November and when he chased this he struggled to get through to 
the retailer and when he made contact through the online chat, he was told it couldn’t say 
why the delivery hadn’t been made and there was no record of the order. The retailer has 
provided information saying that the laptop was purchased online through the Creation credit 
facility and the laptop was dispatched the same day. It said the laptop should have been 
delivered between 10 and 13 November 2020 but that due to the passage of time the 
tracking information is no longer available. Creation has also attempted to get information 
from the delivery company but given this wasn’t requested until April 2023 the information 
was no longer available.
I have looked through the system logs provided by the retailer and can see Mr B’s order was 
dispatched on 9 November 2020. But I have no evidence to confirm whether or not the 
laptop was delivered. The delivery would have been undertaken by a third party and it has 
confirmed tracking information is no longer available. Creation has also said the retailer 
doesn’t have any way to check if the laptop has been used or sold. Without evidence that the 
laptop was delivered, I have considered what, based on the information I have and the wider 
circumstances of the complaint, is most likely to have happened. And, based on this whether 
it is reasonable that Mr B be pursued for payment for the laptop.
The retailer has said that Mr B contacted it on 2 October 2021 to say he never received the 
laptop. The retailer’s back office team responded to the ‘Lost in transit’ request to say there 
was no evidence that Mr B contacted it in 2020 about the issue and due to the time that had 
passed this couldn’t be investigated. It also said that the order wasn’t accessed by it until 2 
October 2021 and had contact been made in 2020 the order would have been accessed at 
that time. In contrast, Mr B says that he made contact through an online chat and was told 
there was no record of the order. He said he tried other means of contact but was 
unsuccessful. Based on the information provided, I cannot say for certain what contact was 
made in regard to this purchase in November 2020. I do however accept that this was an 
unusual time for businesses due to the pandemic and Mr B has said that when contact was 
made through the online chat, he was told the adviser was working from home and didn’t 
have full access to the systems. So, it is possible that contact was made at that time but 
didn’t get recorded.
Accepting that contact may have been made this still doesn’t confirm that the laptop wasn’t 
delivered. I have therefore considered the other information provided in this case. Mr B has 
provided a copy of a receipt for another laptop purchased on 11 November from another 
retailer (order details with the same address details as his). I think this supports his 
testimony that he thought his previous purchase had been cancelled as it is unlikely the 
second purchase would have been made a couple of days later if he had received (or was 
still expecting to receive) the initial laptop. 
Creation has noted that Mr B didn’t make contact about this issue until October 2021, around 
a year after the laptop was due to be delivered. I understand the comment made and have 
addressed the different information provided about contact in November 2020 above. Mr B 
says he made contact in October 2021 as he was being charged for the laptop. This makes 
sense as the Buy Now Pay Later period was coming to an end. I cannot say that Creation 
was wrong to make contact with Mr B about payment as it hadn’t been informed by the 
retailer that the agreement needed to be cancelled. 
While I note that Mr B made contact when the payments were about to start, I can also see 
that Creation provided monthly statements for the plan that was set up for the laptop 
purchase. Copies of statements have been provided and these include the laptop, purchase 
date and information about when payments would fall due. We have requested evidence of 
statements being provided from when the plan was activated in November 2020 until when 
the payment became due. Creation has provided evidence of statements from September 
2021. Creation has also provided evidence showing more recent statements haven’t been 
accessed by Mr B and I cannot say whether he accessed any statements that may have 
been available between November 2020 and October 2021. So, while the information may 
have been available to Mr B that would have shown the agreement still in place for the 
laptop, I can accept that if he thought there wasn’t an agreement in place (based on his 
comments about the call from November 2020) then he wouldn’t have been checking these 
and it would only be when the payment request came through that he would have realised 
there was an issue.
Given the above, I cannot say for certain whether or not the laptop was delivered. The 
delivery company when contacted for further details said it only held details for around two 
years. Therefore, there is a chance that had Creation made contact at the point the 
complaint was first raised that further information might have been provided. But as this 
information isn’t available, I have to make my decision based on the balance of probabilities 
and what I think is most likely to have happened. 
In this case, I think the purchase of the second laptop supports Mr B’s testimony that the 
original laptop hadn’t been delivered. Mr B didn’t access his statements online which further 
suggest he wasn’t aware the agreement was still in place and supports why he only raised 
his complaint when he was contacted for payment. Therefore, while I accept there isn’t clear 
evidence to confirm whether or not the laptop was delivered, on balance I find I accept 
Mr B’s testimony and so I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
On the balance of probability in light of the limited evidence available to me and as explained 
above, I don’t feel it’s fair to hold Mr B liable for the payments.  
To put things right, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing further to pay;

if Mr B has made any payments towards this, then to refund these payments with 8% 
simple interest* from the date of payment till the date of settlement;

remove any negative marker(s) that may have been added to Mr B’s credit file in 
regard to this agreement.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off, if asked for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4105757
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms R has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation’s 
(‘Creation’) response to a claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to 
account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
What happened
In October 2013, Ms R bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“G” using a ten-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
In March 2022, Ms R complained to Creation, she said that she was told by G that the 
system would pay for itself through electricity savings and Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) income. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss as a result. Ms R also 
believed that what happened at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
her and Creation. 
Creation responded to say that Ms R had brought her claim more than six years after the 
cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’), so it had no liability. Unhappy with 
Creation’s response, Ms R referred her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator considered Ms R’s complaint, and said that: 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms R and 
Creation. 
Our Investigator recommended that Ms R keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Ms R had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, making sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. 
Neither Creation nor Ms R responded to our Investigator’s assessment. So, I’ve been asked 
to make a decision on the complaint. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms R’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms R’s s.75 claim 
on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Ms R 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 10 June 2022. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Ms R. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 10 June 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint 
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 8 November 2013. Ms R brought her s.75 claim to 
Creation on 11 March 2022. That is more than six years after she purchased the system. 
Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 
claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by G can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming G to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by G for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms R. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened
Ms R has said that she was told by G’s representative that the system would pay for itself 
through electricity savings and Feed-In Tariff (“FIT”) income. Ms R has said she had existing 
interest in purchasing solar panels before G contacted her. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Ms R to see if there was anything contained within 
them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. She was given 
a quote showing the estimated benefits of the system, which gave a first-year benefit of 
£453, a lifetime benefit of £22,530.55, and said the payback time would be 10 years. 
I’m also mindful that the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC), of which G was a 
member at the time, found that in 2013, prior to Ms R’s purchase, G was in breach of parts 
5.2 and 5.3 of the RECC. And those compliance issues were not fully resolved to RECC’s 
satisfaction until 2015. These parts of the RECC relate to the behaviour of sales 
representatives and the provision of performance information and predictions. Key here is 
that sales representatives should not give false or misleading information to consumers, and 
that any payback periods should take into account the monthly repayments and the full 
amount payable where credit is used for the purchase. 
In this case, based on the calculations G used to arrive at its quote, I can see that the 
system would not pay for itself until around 15 years after installation. So, it is clear that the 
payback time quoted by G was misleading and in breach of the RECC requirements, in that 
it did not take into account the full amount that Ms R had agreed to pay through the credit 
agreement. G’s website at the time (available through the Internet Archive) also referred to 
solar panels as paying for themselves. This adds weight to Ms R’s recollection of what she 
was told. 
So, I find what Ms R’s said is plausible and persuasive. I think the available evidence 
supports her testimony that the potential benefits were likely discussed and were a key 
reason she purchased the system. The written quote provided at the time of sale gave a 
false and misleading impression of how long it would take before the benefits of the system 
covered Ms R’s full cost of purchasing it. That misleading impression is the one that Ms R 
was left with, and this had a significant influence over her decision to go ahead with the 
purchase.  
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that the system paid for itself within the loan 
term, and Creation has not responded to Ms R’s allegations during the course of this 
complaint. 
I consider G’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms R was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that G’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Ms R went into the transaction. Either way, I think G’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Ms R’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for G’s negotiations with Ms R in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Ms R and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan that 
Ms R would otherwise not have taken out.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Ms R and Creation’s relationship arising out of G’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Ms R a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of G’s assurances. That is, that Ms R’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Ms R received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so Ms R pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Ms R received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy 
savings. Ms R will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits 
received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Ms R’s complaint caused Ms R 
some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what I have 
already set out above, Creation should also pay Ms R £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms R’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Ms R has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A 

Use Ms R’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the end of the loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Ms R should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid (B), applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C 

Reimburse C to Ms R 

Pay Ms R an additional £100 compensation
*Where Ms R has not been able to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to complete the calculation above using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms R how much it’s deducted. It should 
also give Ms R a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4107573
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs L has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA. 
 
What happened 
On 18 January 2014, Mrs L signed a loan agreement to buy a solar panel system (‘the 
system’) from a company I’ll call “Z” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation.  
 
Mrs L complained to Creation, she said that she was told by Z that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments would cover the cost of the loan repayments. However, that hasn’t happened, 
and she’s suffered a financial loss. Mrs L also believed that what happened at the time of 
the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation.  
 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Mrs L on 11 April 2022. Creation issued a 
final response letter dated 24 May 2022. Creation considered Mrs L had brought her claim 
more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s rules on dispute 
resolution and the complaint was too late under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). Mrs L brought her 
complaint to this service on 9 June 2022 as she was unhappy with Creation’s response 
and Mrs L asked us to review her complaint. 
 
An investigator considered Mrs L’s complaint, she ultimately thought that -  
• 
Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair.  
• 
The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time.  
• 
Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A.  
• 
A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mrs L 
and Creation.  
 
On 12 April 2023, the investigator recommended that Mrs L keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Mrs L had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding.  
 
Mrs L accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. I consider that 
Creation have now had over a year to respond to the investigator’s findings had it wished 
to. 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mrs L’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A. 
 
The s.75 complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs L’s s.75 
claim on 24 May 2022, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Mrs L brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 9 June 
2022. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes 
of our jurisdiction. 
 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs L. Here the relationship 
ended only when the loan ran to term in June 2024. Therefore, the relationship was 
ongoing when the complaint was raised on 11 April 2022. So, the complaint has been 
brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. 
 
Merits 
 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by Z can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming Z to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations.  
 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by Z for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs L.  
 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A. 
 
What happened? 
 
Mrs L has said that she was told by Z’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make.  
I haven’t seen any evidence Mrs L had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels 
before being approached by a representative of Z.  
 
 
 
I’ve looked at the documents from the time of the lending provided by Mrs L to see if there 
was anything contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t 
be self-funding.  
 
I’ve considered Mrs L’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other 
things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the 
term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out 
clearly enough for Mrs L to be able to understand what was required to be repaid towards 
the agreement. 
 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Mrs L to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Mrs L would have looked to Z’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision. There is 
nothing in the documentation I have seen that would have put Mrs L on notice that the 
solar panels were not self-funding. 
 
We’ve asked if there was other documentation from the point of sale, but neither Creation 
nor Mrs L have provided any.  
 
However, Mrs L has said the financial benefits were discussed. I’ve looked at Z’s website 
from around the time of the sale. The nearest cache of the website before the sale is 9 
January 2014. I am satisfied, it is reasonable to take this content into account when 
considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mrs L. On the front page 
there is statement that says, 
 
“Solar panels that pay for themselves… 
 
For more information click here” 
 
If you access more information you are taken to a section with many benefit-driven 
statements including, 
 
“Want your property to earn you money? Then buy solar panels and earn a tax-free 
income from sunlight with a 20 year guaranteed income. 
 
The introduction of the Government backed ‘Feed in Tariff’ gives you a whole new kind of 
investment, an investment that is 100% green, tax free, guaranteed for 20 years, index 
linked to the rate of inflation… take a look at what a ‘paid for’ solar panel system can 
provide you: 
 
• 
Earn up to £700 per year* 
• 
Up to 8-12% tax free return per year* 
• 
20 year guaranteed income 
• 
Index linked 
• 
Government backed.” 
 
Nowhere on the website is there any warning that if the solar panels were taken on 
finance that the income and savings may not be sufficient to meet the loan repayments. 
 
I accept that the above is something that Mrs L may not have seen. But I think that the 
representatives of Z are likely to have mirrored the benefit driven tone of Z’s official 
 
 
website at the time of this sale. And similarly, it seems less likely that Z’s representatives 
were making balanced warnings about likely performance of the solar panels, when those 
same things were entirely absent from Z’s official website. 
 
I think Z’s website supports Mrs L’s testimony that the potential benefits were discussed. 
I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to purchase the system and her savings 
on her electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme would have been a central part of 
the conversation. I also think the website supports Mrs L’s testimony that Z’s 
representative told her the monthly payments and savings she would receive would cover 
her monthly finance payments.  
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mrs L said happened. Yet with no 
meaningful prior interest, Mrs L left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, 
with a monthly repayment of around £68 payable for ten years. Given her lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Mrs L’s account of what she was told 
by Z to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t 
see why she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from Z.  
 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Mrs L’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment.  
 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £814.32 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Mrs L’s 
system was not performing as expected but Mrs L’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments.  
 
So, the statements made by Z were not true. I think the salesman from Z must reasonably 
have been aware that Mrs L’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. 
Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mrs L’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Mrs L. 
 
Considering Mrs L’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, Z’s website, and in the absence of any other evidence from 
Creation to the contrary, I think it likely Z gave Mrs L a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Mrs L’s account to be 
plausible and convincing. 
 
I consider Z’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs L was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that Z’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mrs L went into the transaction. Either 
way, I think Z’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose 
of the transaction from Mrs L’s point of view 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for Z’s negotiations with Mrs L in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
 
 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Mrs L and Creation was unfair. 
 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide 
a fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed 
analysis of Mrs L’s s.75 complaint and her other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, 
this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.   
 
Putting things right 
Fair compensation 
 
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy 
the unfairness of Mrs L and Creation’s relationship arising out of Z’s misleading and 
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mrs L a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of Z’s assurances. That is, that Mrs L’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement. 
 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement 
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mrs L received from the solar 
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do 
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mrs L received by way of FIT 
payments as well as through energy savings.  
 
Mrs L may need to supply up to date details to help Creation make that calculation. But 
Creation can and should use assumptions when information is not available. I am told that 
the loan has run to term. 
 
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
 
• 
Calculate the total repayments Mrs L made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs L’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the 
known and assumed benefits she received over the 10 year loan period – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs L should have repaid each month towards the 
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C 
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs L.  
 
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mrs L 
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by 
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
 
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs L how much tax it’s taken off. It should also 
 
 
give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.” 
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs L’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2024. 
  
 
Douglas Sayers 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4109757
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”).
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr P throughout. 
What happened
In January 2015 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£7,999 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “R”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,618.11 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £105.15. 
In July 2021 Mr P sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said R told him he’d be paid for the electricity the system generated through the 
government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-funding. He 
said R told him the system would be maintenance free with a 40-year life expectancy and his 
energy bills would go down. 
Mr P said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and several other 
actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr P decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought R had likely told Mr P the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. They didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so they thought R 
had misrepresented it. They thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr P 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
They thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that Mr P pays no more than that, and he keeps 
the system. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim. 
Mr P agreed, but I can’t see we received a substantive response from Creation. As things 
weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr P. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in January 2022, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by R can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming R to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by R for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr P says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mr P says he was told, and I’ve reviewed the documentation that I’ve been 
supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr P to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement.
I should point out Mr P had previously signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for 
what seems to be a £9,900 solar panel system. But the most up to date agreement I have is 
the one for the £7,999 system. The reference on this agreement and payment amount 
matches Creation’s documents. The price matches what seems to be a later invoice from R. 
Neither party has disputed this, so I’m proceeding on this basis.
Mr P has also supplied testimony saying R contacted him and arranged a no obligation visit 
and quote. He said the salesperson pressured him to sign the contract on the day saying the 
system would pay for itself. He said the salesperson enticed him with a discount if he were to 
sign on the same day and told him R had a plan for monitoring the system. Mr P said his 
main motivation for the purchase was for the financial benefit which included its self-funding 
ability. He said at the time he was in training and had young children and his wife was 
pregnant. He said based on what R said he saw the system as an investment rather than a 
liability. But he said he pays in excess of £1,200 per year towards the system but only 
receives around £700. He said he’s had to cut down on his expenses due to the shortfall in 
his disposable income. 
Mr P has also supplied some further information from around the point of sale. He’s supplied 
an invoice with the price of the system (£7,999.01); a domestic electrical installation 
certificate from R; what looks like a quote for the £9,900 system I’ve mentioned above; 
details of the inverter and generation meter; serial numbers for goods; a solar array test 
report; and an MCS certificate saying the estimated annual generation was 3,428kWh. 
Neither of the fixed sum loan agreements I’ve seen set out any of the potential savings Mr P 
was likely to make from having the system installed. I’ve not seen any other estimates of 
savings or benefits were present on the documents given to Mr P at the point of sale. Based 
on what I’ve seen, I don’t think there was an easy way for Mr P to have been able to 
compare the total costs against the benefits he was allegedly promised when he signed the 
fixed sum loan agreement. Mr P has indicated he signed the fixed sum loan agreement 
based on what he was told by R – i.e., that the system would be self-funding. Taking 
everything into account, I think Mr P’s recollections seem plausible.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings and FIT 
income of around £1,260 per year. But I’ve not seen anything to suggest Mr P’s system 
achieved the benefits required to make the system self-funding within the term of the 
agreement, even though I think it’s slightly overperformed compared to the estimate on the 
MCS certificate. I therefore find the representations that were likely made weren’t true. 
I think R’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mr P’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think R’s 
representative would have known that Mr P’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to him.
Considering Mr P’s account about what he was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely R gave Mr P a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given his lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden he took on I find Mr P’s account of what he was told by R credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have 
seen this purchase appealing had R not given the reassurances he said he received. 
I consider R’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr P expected to receive by agreeing to the 
installation of the system. I consider that R’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mr P went into the transaction. Either way, I think R’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for R’s negotiations with Mr P in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr P 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of R’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of R’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr P received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT payments as well as through 
energy savings. Mr P will need to supply up to date details of all FIT benefits received, 
electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the claim has also caused Mr P some further 
inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator is 
broadly a fair way to recognise that.
Finally, I note Mr P also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given my 
above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Mr P’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr P’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr P has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his complaint – A

Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he received up until the 
date of settlement of his complaint* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr P

Use Mr P’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr P to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early.

Pay Mr P an additional £100 compensation
*Where Mr P has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
**If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4119465
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who I’ll call Creation, shouldn’t have 
charged him interest on a Buy Now Pay Later transaction. He’s also upset that they made 
adverse reports to his credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr T, but I don’t think Creation have done anything wrong here. I’ll 
explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
In order to avoid interest on his November 2019 sofa purchase, the fixed sum loan 
agreement Mr T signed with Creation explained that he needed to pay the balance of £2,300 
before 24 November 2020 (the Special Offer Date or “SOD”). 
It’s not disputed that Mr T didn’t make his payment in time, but Mr T says there were reasons 
why he couldn’t do that. He’s explained that he called Creation but was unable to pass 
security as he didn’t know his agreement number. He said that as soon as he received 
notification of his agreement number he made the payment and that it was therefore unfair 
for Creation to subsequently charge interest and to report adverse information to his credit 
file.
It was Mr T’s responsibility to make payment if he wanted to avoid interest being applied to 
his account. I’ve been provided with a copy of the credit agreement that was signed 
electronically by Mr T on 24 November 2019, the agreement number is clearly stated in the 
right hand corner, and I therefore think it’s reasonable to expect Mr T to have been able to 
quote it. I can also see that Creation applied a seven day period after the SOD in which 
they’ve said they would have accepted a payment without holding Mr T accountable. But as 
Mr T didn’t contact them to ask for the agreement number until 30 November and was aware 
he didn’t have that number by at least the 24 November 2020 (the SOD), I don’t think it was 
unfair of Creation to add interest to the account in line with the original agreement.
I don’t therefore think Creation were unreasonable to apply interest to his account. If 
payments haven’t been made towards the fixed sum loan I wouldn’t think Creation were 
unreasonable to do that, or to report the credit agreement to Mr T’s credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4119772
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) dealt with her 
complaint about a credit agreement she took out with it.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs P and her daughter visited a third party retailer, I’ll call this retailer “H”. Mrs 
P’s daughter selected a number of items including a sofa and a loveseat that were meant for 
Mrs P’s daughter’s home. Mrs P and her daughter do not live together. Mrs P paid for the 
goods using a fixed sum loan provided by Creation. H acted as the credit broker in relation to 
this finance agreement.
Mrs P tells us that things did not go smoothly, specifically she says:
“Upon the 1st delivery attempt it was apparent the 4 seater sofa was too big to fit in the 
property (even after the sales manager at [H’s] store looked at the floor plans of the flat and 
assuring me and my daughter it would fit). 
To resolve this, [H] suggested they would contact a local joiner, that they use often in these 
circumstances, to dismantle the sofa so we could get it into the lounge, where it would then 
be reassembled. This would cost £150.00 (to be paid in cash by my daughter, and 
subsequently reimbursed by them by being taken from the total credit amount). 
My daughter was also informed a few days prior to the agreed delivery date,…, that the 
loveseat had not passed the quality check so would not be delivered, at which point my 
daughter decided not to wait another 13 weeks, but to go without the loveseat. Again, [H] 
agreed to take this off the credit agreement”.
Consequently Mrs P thinks H had a contract with her which it both misrepresented and 
broke. Moreover, the amount she owes under the credit agreement should have been 
reduced by £799 (the cost of the loveseat) and £150 (the reassembly charge). Mrs P 
indicates that H agreed to this but never changed the relevant paperwork to reflect this. And 
neither did H tell Creation that the amount borrowed under the loan needed to be changed, 
although it should have done. Then H went into administration and Creation started pursuing 
her for the full amount.
Mrs P took matters up with H’s Administrators, but they were unable to assist saying she’d 
brought her claim to it too late. Therefore Mrs P complained to Creation. 
Mrs P thinks she can ask Creation to put things right because of the type of credit she used 
in this transaction. This is because as she took out a fixed sum loan provided by Creation 
then she may have the protection of Section 75. The general effect of Section 75 is that if 
Mrs P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier (here that 
is H) she can also bring a like claim against Creation provided certain conditions are met.  
Her position is that she should not have to pay for the joiner’s fee as this was only incurred 
due to misrepresentation by H. Moreover, she should not have to pay for the loveseat as she 
never received it, which was a breach of contract. Therefore, Mrs P complained to Creation. 
Creation’s position is that Mrs P told it H was meant to give her compensation and a cost 
reduction. It does not say if it accepts this is the case. But in any event, H’s records show 
according to the administrator, that in 2019 H took £614 off the purchase price. Therefore 
Mrs P has received the remedy she told Creation she is entitled to, and therefore Creation 
did not agree it had to take any further action and did not uphold her complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mrs P complained to this service.
Once her complaint was with us we asked Mrs P to send us any information she had to 
demonstrate she had a contract with H. Mrs P sent us photos taken in H’s store, of the 
furniture with price tags on them.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs P’s complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mrs P’s complaint should be upheld.
As far as I am aware this service received no response from Creation to our investigator’s 
recommendation, but Mrs P rejected it. Mrs P repeated her earlier stance. Mrs P also 
pointed out that H should have changed the paperwork at the time and that Creation’s 
paperwork should reflect the reality of the situation.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. I considered the available evidence, 
having done so I was not minded to uphold Mrs P’s complaint. However my reasoning was 
not entirely the same as that on which our investigator had relied. Therefore, I thought it was 
fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they 
wanted to) before I made my final decision. On this basis, I issued a provisional decision and 
I’ve set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms part of my final 
decision.
“What I’ve decided and why
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored 
it. Rather, I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Creation has not made it clear whether it disputes that Mrs P was entitled to the cost 
reduction and compensation that she claims (I’ll call this “argument 1”). Or whether it is 
merely saying she was entitled to the cost reduction and compensation and she got it 
(“argument 2”).  In this complaint I’ve considered both argument 1 and argument 2. In either 
case Mrs P and Creation disagree about whether she is entitled to any remedy or any further 
remedy. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is 
here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulator’s rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Relevant law 
here includes Section 75.
As I’ve already mentioned Mrs P can potentially rely on the protection of Section 75. 
However before I can look at whether there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract I have to look at whether Mrs P meets the “qualifying conditions” for a valid claim 
under Section 75.
I recognise that this approach may cause Mrs P some consternation as Creation has not 
raised this issue. However, I have an inquisitorial remit and that means, amongst other 
things, I have to look at the complaint in the round. I think it is fair and reasonable that I look 
at whether the arrangement under this complaint met the conditions for a valid claim under 
Section 75 before I look at the wider merits of the complaint. Because if Mrs P has no valid 
claim under Section 75 then those wider merits fall away, in relation to this part of her 
complaint.
Section 75 requires that there must be a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place 
as defined under Section 12 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In short, under such an 
agreement Mrs P has to be the debtor, Creation the creditor and H the supplier. To establish 
whether such an agreement is in place I need to look at the arrangements between the 
parties and how they are structured. In particular in this instance I need to look at what 
contractual agreement (if any) existed between Mrs P as a debtor and H as the supplier.
In the first instance, the most compelling evidence would be the written contractual 
documents. I recognise that contracts can be verbal. But there are evidential difficulties with 
verbal contracts that don’t exist when the contract is written. However, that said, we have not 
got a copy of the contract of sale nor the terms and conditions that might have applied to that 
contract nor the invoice of sale. We asked Mrs P to send us of any contractual documents 
she had from H, but we have not received any. 
We do have a copy of the finance agreement between Mrs P and Creation. Mrs P’s name is 
on this contract, but the address is her daughter’s. The fact that Mrs P paid for the furniture 
that was supplied by H does not tell us though, by itself, that she contracted with H. It is 
possible that she did contract with H for the benefit of her daughter. It is also equally 
possible that Mrs P’s daughter contracted with H and Mrs P merely discharged her 
daughter’s obligation to pay H by entering into the finance contract with Creation.
Given the written documents do not give a clear-cut answer to the question of who 
contracted with H, I’ve looked at the wider circumstances. 
Both Mrs P and her daughter were there when the furniture was chosen and ordered from H. 
But the furniture was delivered to Mrs P’s daughter’s address. Moreover, it was Mrs P’s 
daughter not Mrs P who paid the joiner. Further, it was Mrs P’s daughter who apparently 
cancelled the loveseat part of the contract, without consulting her mother first. All of these 
actions on the part of Mrs P’s daughter [ plus the fact the furniture was delivered to Mrs P’s 
daughter] suggest on balance that she was the contracting party in relation to the contract 
with H.
Mrs P has also told us that her daughter entered into verbal contracts with H when she 
agreed instore to pay for the joiner and H would reimburse her. And when she was 
contacted by H and told the loveseat had failed the quality check and she cancelled that part 
of the contract. Which indicates that Mrs P also thought it was her daughter who contracted 
with H. 
That said, I don’t necessarily agree that Mrs P’s daughter did enter into verbal contracts but 
her behaviour as I have said makes it seem more likely than not that she was the contracting 
party in relation to the contract of sale with H. 
I’ve thought about other scenarios that might have been possible here. Mrs P, her daughter 
and H could all have been parties to the contract of sale. Or Mrs P’s daughter could simply 
have been acting as the agent for her principal that is her mother. But I’ve discounted those 
alternative scenarios. Nothing I’ve seen suggests that there was a contract between Mrs P 
her daughter and H. Nor have I seen anything that suggests Mrs P’s daughter was only 
acting as the agent of her mother. Rather I think Mrs P’s daughter’s behaviour indicates on 
balance that she was the contracting party and the sole contracting party with H.
Moreover I think it is significant that H called Mrs P’s daughter and not Mrs P to tell her about 
the loveseat. This suggests to me in circumstances H thought it was contracting with Mrs P’s 
daughter and not Mrs P.
Further Mrs P tells us after Mrs P’s daughter cancelled the loveseat this happened.
“My daughter called the store manager at H numerous times to request the revised credit 
agreement at which point she was told 'that’s not how it works' and it would simply 'just come 
off the end of the credit payments’.
The fact that Mrs P’s daughter was doing the post contractual negotiating with H and that it 
was responding to her suggests that Mrs P’s daughter was the contracting party on balance.
For all of these reasons, I am not satisfied that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place such as would permit Mrs P to bring a claim under Section 75. It follows, 
that the points about misrepresentation and breach of contract under Section 75 therefore 
fall away. It also follows that I don’t uphold this part of Mrs P’s complaint.
The credit agreement
Setting aside issues of Section 75. I can well understand why Mrs P is adamant that the 
credit agreement should accurately reflect what was agreed with H. I should imagine 
Creation would support this stance too, but its position is the credit agreement is already 
accurate. 
Moreover, in any event, the relevant regulations require that the finance agreement should 
accurately reflect the agreement between the parties. That means in this instance it should 
reflect the actual amount of credit taken out by Mrs P. 
The difficulty for Mrs P is that I simply don’t have enough information to uphold this part of 
her complaint. I’m not satisfied that the credit agreement was meant to be varied as she 
says. I say this because I would have needed to see information such as correspondence or 
contemporaneous notes which indicated that the sales contract had been amended and 
therefore the finance agreement needed to be amended too. If Mrs P or her daughter had 
such information it seems they would have already sent it to us.
Moreover, Mrs P seems to be suggesting that H did not contact Creation to tell it to change 
the amount of credit because it went into administration before it could do this. But I’ve seen 
nothing that tells me that the administration happened very close in time to the events Mrs P 
complains about, so it did not have time to ask for the credit agreement to be amended.
Further, Mrs P would also have to explain her delay in complaining to Creation. It appears 
she had to start making payments in July 2019 but only complained to Creation in November 
2020. If the finance agreement did not accurately reflect the amount of credit she took out I 
would have expected Mrs P to have complained sooner.
Further still, the issue of the £614 price reduction still remains unexplained. Even if I accept 
Mrs P’s stance that H agreed to not charge for the loveseat and agreed to pay for the 
joiners, which I don’t, it could be that the £614 price reduction was the remedy for this. I 
cannot discount this possibility as I’ve not seen the invoice from H so I’ve no documentary 
evidence to show what H charged under the contract for the loveseat the photos don’t 
demonstrate this the invoice would. Nor have I seen anything to show the joiners were 
instructed by H and paid by Mrs P’s daughter. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“Section 56”)
For completeness I mention there was one further avenue open to Mrs P to recover part of 
her money. H had two roles here it was the retailer, but it was also the credit broker in 
relation to the loan with Creation. Under Section 56 Creation could be held to account for a 
material misrepresentation made by H that induced Mrs P to enter into the contract with 
Creation. 
Mrs P suggests that she only entered into the finance agreement because H misrepresented 
the sofa, in that it said it would fit into her daughter’s home. But typically furniture retailers 
put the onus on the person buying the furniture, (here, I have found this is Mrs P’s daughter), 
to check the furniture will fit in their home. 
In the circumstances, I don’t find it likely that H misrepresented the sofa to Mrs P, and this 
induced her to enter into the contract with Creation. It follows I’ve no proper basis to uphold 
this part of Mrs P’s complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not currently intend to uphold this complaint.”
As I have already mentioned, I invited both Mrs P and Creation to respond to my provisional 
decision. As far as I am aware this service has received no response from either.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to reach a decision in this complaint, amongst other things I looked at whether Mrs 
P contracted directly with H as she indicates that she did. I already explained in my 
provisional decision why this was a key question. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I’ll add that when I looked at whether Mrs P most likely contracted with H I also took account 
of the fact that the furniture was meant for Mrs P’s daughter’s home and not for Mrs P’s. This 
is another point along with those that I have already mentioned that led me to conclude that 
on balance, the contract of sale for the furniture was made between Mrs P’s daughter and H 
only.
I’ve received no responses to the provisional decision as far as I am aware and no new 
arguments, it follows I’ve reached the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. 
My reasons for reaching these conclusions are the same as those set out in my provisional 
decision with the addition of the point about the furniture being bought for Mrs P’s daughter’s 
home.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs P’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4124942
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss K complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd irresponsibly provided her with a 
credit account.
What happened
Miss K applied for and was granted a credit account with a limit of £3,500, for a high street 
retailer, provided by Creation, in June 2018. She took out the credit to fund large purchases 
from that retailer, in June and November 2018. The first 6 months were interest free and 
required no payment, thereafter an APR of 19.9% applied. The limit has remained the same 
throughout the time Miss K has held the credit account. Miss K says that at the time of taking 
out the credit she was in debt and has struggled to make repayments.
Creation said that it carried out affordability checks including a credit check. It verified that 
her income fell within the band £25,000 - £29,999. It took into account her outstanding debt 
from credit cards which amounted to £2,685, her payment of a mortgage and her monthly 
commitments. It calculated that she had a disposable income of just over £1,000, including 
any repayments on the new credit account.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator said that he didn’t think 
Creation had acted fairly. He said that if Creation had verified Miss K’s financial 
circumstances by reviewing bank statements, it would’ve seen that she was relying heavily 
on her overdraft facility, getting charged for it and was paying for credit with credit. He said 
that Creation should rework the account to remove all interest fees and charges.
Creation disagreed. It said that our Adjudicator had confirmed that the information obtained 
from its checks was accurate.  It further said that it was under no obligation to obtain bank 
statements from customers when conducting checks. And that as far as it is aware bank 
statements are not something that is generally requested in the finance industry.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. I’ve taken that approach into account in considering Miss K’s complaint.
 So, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isn’t a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, but it 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumer’s circumstances. As a lending relationship continues over time and 
the level of credit increases, lenders may need to obtain further information from a borrower 
to check whether they’re lending responsibly and that the repayments are sustainable for the 
customer.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding what’s fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:

Did Creation complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss K 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?

If not, would those checks have shown that Miss K would have been able to do so?
Creation’s figures for Miss K’s debts at the time of the credit application largely accord with 
the credit report Miss K obtained, in terms of the overall indebtedness. Creation’s figures for 
monthly expenditure were:
Secured lending 
       £458
Unsecured lending 
       £277
Monthly commitments (including the new credit) £567.95
That adds up to £1,302.95. With a declared net monthly income of £1,982 that leaves a 
disposable income of around £679, so I’m not sure how Creation calculated its figures to 
make it over £1,000, even if some figures were counted twice.
I think Creation did carry out proportionate checks, but I have to consider, once it had done 
those checks, whether they should have alerted it to carry out further checks. And I’ve taken 
into account that the credit limit was quite high. Creation points out that it is not required to 
check bank statements. That is true, but as I’ve said the Rules don’t require any particular 
checks to be carried out. 
Here, Miss K’s bank statements showed that she was consistently overdarawn on her 
current account. Indeed for the last three months prior to her application she had been 
overdrawn between £1,100 and £1,900 at the end of each month. And although she 
received payments on a student loan in that time, she soon ran the overdraft up again. 
I think it likely that any credit report would have shown the bank account being constantly 
overdrawn, so should have alerted Creation to carry out more checks. As it’s difficult to see 
any non-essential expenditure ion her account, I think it likely that it would have found, 
whether by looking at bank statements or other means, that because Miss K was regularly 
spending more than she earned, the credit was unaffordable. I’ve considered the six-month 
“free” period, but it’s evident that her position was no better after six months, and I don’t think 
Creation factored in any rise in her income.
So I don’t think that Creation made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
As I don’t think Creation ought to have opened the account, I don’t think it’s fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Miss K should 
pay back the amounts she has borrowed. Therefore, Creation should:

Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied. 

If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss K along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Creation should also remove all adverse information regarding this account 
from Miss K’s credit file. 

Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Creation should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss K for the remaining amount. Once Miss K has 
cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account should be 
removed from their credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to provide the remedy 
set out under “Putting things right” above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4128101
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr M has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr M has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr M throughout.  
What happened 
In June 2015 Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£9,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £14,170.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £118.09. There was a £135 arrangement fee and interest of 
£5,035.80.  
I understand Mr M paid off the agreement early in September 2016. 
In August 2022 Mr M sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said S told him he’d effectively be paid for the electricity the system generated 
through the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that the system would be self-
funding within the loan term. He said S told him his energy bills would go down; he’d receive 
a guaranteed income for 20 years; he’d earn up to 10% annually tax free; his property value 
would increase; and the system was maintenance free with a 25-year life expectancy. He 
said the system was misrepresented and believed statements and several other actions at 
the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in January 2023 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr M decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in February 2023.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr M the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and she thought S had 
misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr M and 
Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. She 
thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings and 
income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
Mr M agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr M. Here I understand the relationship 
ended in September 2016. Mr M put in his claim and complaint with Creation within six years 
of that – in August 2022 – so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr M says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr M says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr M to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
Mr M has also supplied other point of sale documentation such as installation certificates; 
warranty documentation; MCS certificate; a quotation with Standard Estimation Method 
calculations; and sun shading information. While Mr M would have seen the estimated yield 
of the system, I can’t see the documentation had information clearly presented that would 
 
 
have enabled him to compare the overall costs to the estimated benefits he’d receive. There 
was nothing in the documentation I’ve seen that set out the estimated financial benefits of 
the system.  
Mr M told us more about the sale. He reiterated S told him the benefits from the system 
would cover the cost of the loan. He said S’s salesperson was pushy and made him feel like 
he’d lose out or miss the deal if he didn’t agree to the purchase straight away. He also said 
S’s salesperson had changed firms around the time he bought the system and that he later 
found out the type of panels that were installed were inferior and not the ones that were 
originally being sold. Mr M said he felt that S mis-sold the system on many levels. Mr M said 
he felt embarrassed by being mis-led and that he didn’t know at the time he could complain. 
He said he tried to mitigate the losses by paying off the agreement early. 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr M said happened. Yet Mr M left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£118.09, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr M’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £1,400 per year. However, I don’t think the 
system would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these 
statements were not true. I think S’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr M’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think S’s 
representative would have known that Mr M’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr M. 
Considering Mr M’s account about what he was told, the documentation and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr M a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr M was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr M went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr M’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr M in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr M 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
The s.75 complaint 
 
 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr M’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr M and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr M a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr M’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr M received (or will receive) from the system 
over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s 
important to consider the benefit Mr M received (or will receive) by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr M will need to supply up to date details, where available, 
of all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr M’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr M some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to 
what I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr M £100. 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr M’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments (the monthly repayments and settlement payment) Mr M 
has made towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement of his 
complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr M’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received (or would 
be due to receive) up until the end of the loan term* – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr M should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr M 
• 
Pay Mr M an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr M is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
 
 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4131238
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs F has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“the CCA”), and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of 
the CCA.
Mrs F has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs F throughout. 
What happened
In May 2013 Mrs F entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£10,000 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £15,667.09. Mrs F paid a £100 deposit and was due to 
pay back the agreement with 120 monthly repayments of £129.72. I understand the system 
was installed in June 2013. 
In August 2021 Mrs F put in a claim with Creation explaining she thought the system was 
mis-sold. In summary, she said:

She became aware in May 2021 that contrary to claims made by P her system wasn’t 
self-funding over 8 years. She thought P had deliberately misled her at the point of 
sale the system would be self-funding. 

P had been found to be in breach of the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(RECC). 

Creation was responsible for the misleading statements made by P. 

Other lenders had settled claims in relation to systems sold by P. 

She requested settlement of around £5,300 so that she pays no more than what she 
will save or make from the system. 

P is in liquidation and Creation is responsible for dealing with the claim. 
Ultimately, Mrs F said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements and 
several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself 
and Creation. 
Creation sent a final response letter in October 2021 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs F decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in October 2021. 
One of our investigators looked into things and said that they thought the unfair relationship 
claim and section 75 claim had been brought in time. They focussed on the unfair 
relationship claim because they said misrepresentations could lead to an unfair relationship 
and so didn’t need to cover off section 75 in detail. Our investigator considered Mrs F’s 
testimony that P told her the system would pay for itself in 8 years. But they noted 
documentation that set out the estimated first year benefit was around £700, which was 
much less than what would be required to cover the credit agreement repayments. Our 
investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. 
Mrs F responded to say other complaints like hers had been upheld. She highlighted again P 
had breached the RECC code of conduct. She said P was saying to all its customer the 
system would be self-funding, and that this was widely accepted. She said P arranged for 
clients to agree to purchase the system before arranging the finance. She said any argument 
from P the system wasn’t mis-sold was unlikely to be a successful defence. She said P told 
customers they’d receive free electricity, but many customers started to realise the benefits 
wouldn’t make the system self-funding.  
As things weren’t resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs F’s s.75 claim 
in October 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mrs F 
brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in October 2021. So, her 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs F. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in October 2021, so the complaint has 
been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, and that I can consider the alleged 
misrepresentations under the unfair relationship complaint, I don’t think I need to provide a 
detailed analysis of Mrs F’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching 
a fair outcome in the circumstances.  
What happened?
Mrs F says she was verbally misled the system would effectively pay for itself. I’ve taken 
account of what Mrs F says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.  
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mrs F to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement.
I’m also mindful P gave Mrs F a SAP Calculations and 1st Year Returns form. This set out 
the generation tariff and export tariff for the FIT payments. It also set out the system had 
estimated:

Generation tariff earnings of £420.85.

Electrical savings based on 50% usage of £210.36.

Export tariff earnings of £61.47.

Total benefit of £692.68. 
I think the above mentioned document ought to have shown Mrs F the savings wouldn’t have 
covered the annual loan repayments cost which was around £1,550, or indeed the higher 
cost of paying off the agreement within 8 years. I would have expected Mrs F to have 
queried the shortfall if she’d been told the system would be self-funding within 8 years. We 
asked Mrs F about this and for details of why it took her as long as it did to raise the claim. 
Mrs F said she had to replace the battery and converter which she’d assumed was the 
reason for the low FIT payments. So I think she’s offered a plausible explanation for why she 
didn’t raise the claim sooner. 
Mrs F also explained her recollection of what P highlighted in 2013 wasn’t fresh in her mind. 
She said she didn’t recall the discrepancy in savings and cost of the agreement were 
discussed. She said she also didn’t recall the annual loan cost being highlighted – only the 
monthly payments and yearly savings amount. I can understand the sale was a long time 
ago and so this could have an understandable impact on her recollections. But as I said 
above, I think the loan was broadly set out clearly enough for Mrs F to have been able to 
understand what was required to be repaid. Mrs F has acknowledged she discussed the 
monthly payments and yearly benefits. So I think it would have been straight-forward enough 
for her to have seen the system wouldn’t be self-funding within 8 years or the term of the 
agreement, based on the evidence she had a the time which she’s supplied as part of her 
claim and complaint. 
I appreciate Mrs F has highlighted RECC findings and actions taken by other lenders but, 
like our investigator explained, we need to look at each case on its own merits. I note RECC 
found P had misled a sample of customers that loan payments would be covered by the 
system benefits, but I think I have to put fair weight on the documents that were supplied at 
the point of sale to Mrs F – which as far as I can see from the RECC findings weren’t always 
supplied. The information setting out the estimated benefits was included on a single page 
and the figures were presented reasonably clearly.
Overall, while I’ve carefully considered what Mrs F says she was told, given what I’ve set out 
above, I’m not persuaded there’s sufficient evidence Mrs F was misled the system would be 
self-funding. Therefore, I don’t have the grounds to say that Creation’s decision to decline 
the claim was unfair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4133807
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mrs O has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made under section 75 (“s.75”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(“the CCA”), and an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of 
the CCA. 
Mrs O has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mrs O throughout.  
What happened 
In December 2013 Mrs O entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£5,500 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £8,532.04. Mrs O was due to pay back the agreement 
with 120 monthly repayments of £71.10. I understand the system was installed in January 
2014.  
In April 2021 Mrs O put in a claim with Creation explaining she thought the system was mis-
sold. In summary, she said P pressured her to take out the agreement to buy the system. 
Mrs O said P told her the system would be self-funding; she would make a profit and benefit 
from cheaper electricity. She said P mispresented the system and that several other actions 
at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between herself and Creation. 
 
Creation sent a final response letter in November 2021 to say it was dismissing the 
complaint without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mrs O decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in December 2021 (after initially contacting us in July 2021).  
One of our investigators looked into things and ultimately said that they thought the unfair 
relationship claim and section 75 claim had been brought in time. They said they thought it 
likely P had misled Mrs O by telling her the system would be self-funding within 10 years. 
They thought Creation could be held responsible for the misleading actions of P, and that it 
should put Mrs O in the position she’d have been in had the system been self-funding within 
the loan term. They also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
looking into the s.140A claim.  
I can’t see we received a response from Creation, and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.  
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
 
 
The s.75 complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mrs O’s s.75 claim 
in November 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. 
Mrs O brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service in December 2021. So, 
her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mrs O. Here I understand the relationship 
was ongoing at the time it was referred to the ombudsman service in December 2021, so the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction. Although I 
understand the agreement has now been paid off.  
Merits 
The s.75 complaint  
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred.  
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into in December 2013. Mrs O brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
in April 2021. That is more than six years after she entered into an agreement with it. Given 
this I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted the s.75 claim. So, I 
do not uphold this aspect of the complaint.  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs O.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
 
 
Mrs O says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mrs O says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
Mrs O has supplied a copy of P’s notes that say she spoke to it on 3 December 2013 
because she’d shown interest. The notes say shown interest for free panels.  
Mrs O signed the fixed sum loan agreement on 6 December 2013. The fixed sum loan 
agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; the total amount 
payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this was set out 
clearly enough for Mrs O to be able to understand what was required to be repaid towards 
the agreement. But the loan agreement doesn’t set out the savings Mrs O would likely make 
from having the system installed.  
I can see an order form was signed for a £5,500 system on 6 December 2013. This was for 
8 panels. Although I’ve also seen that at one point 12 panels were discussed but P could 
only fit 8 panels on the roof. I think P’s notes indicate it gave Mrs O 8 upgraded panels 
instead of 12 standard ones.  
I can see the MCS Installation Certificate sets out the commissioning date as 23 January 
2014. The evidence indicates this was the installation date. The MCS certificate sets out the 
estimated generation for the system in kWh was 1,643.  
But I’ve also seen other documents that set out expectations of the system. I can there’s a 
customer satisfaction note from Creation, signed by Mrs O on 23 January 2014, that sets 
out: 
Expected generation tariff income 
£478.24 
Expected export tariff income  
£74.02 
Savings from electricity used  
£290.33 
Estimated first year annual savings £842.58 
Mrs O also supplied a copy of another document from P that set out a review of the benefits: 
Summary of 1st year figures  
£843 
Lifetime electricity bills savings 
£13,834 
Total tariff rate income  
 
£17,448 
The form also sets out the payback time was 9 years and that the lifetime benefit was 
£31,281.53. 
Curiously, the forms that were completed were for systems with a yield of around 3,190kWh 
but Mrs O’s system has a yield much lower – around 1,500 to 1600kWh. It’s not clear why P 
didn’t recalculate the figures. Mrs O thinks it was because the number of panels were 
reduced around the installation time. This seems like a viable explanation.  
Mrs O has also supplied copies of other documents including the order form, marketing 
materials, certificates and maintenance instructions, but I can’t see those forms adequately 
informed her the system wouldn’t be self-funding. Overall, the documentation I’ve seen 
seems to indicate Mrs O was told otherwise.  
I’ve also thought about Mrs O’s testimony. She said she wasn’t interested in solar panels 
before being approached by P. But she said her late husband was interested at the time 
because P sold the system as giving free electricity. She said the motivation in buying the 
system was because P said the system would be self-funding and that she’s get free 
 
 
electricity most of the time. She said her and her husband were retired at the time and had 
an income of around £20,000.  
It would be difficult to understand why, in this particular case, Mrs O would have agreed to 
pay for the system if her monthly outgoings would increase. It’s a long-term financial 
commitment. On balance, I find her account to be plausible and convincing.  
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings of 
around £850 per year. I’ve not seen anything to suggest she’s achieved anywhere near this 
benefit. I therefore find the statements that were likely made as to the self-funding nature of 
the system weren’t true.  
I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that Mrs O’s system would not 
have produced benefits at the level required to be self-funding. While there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mrs O’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to her. 
 
Considering Mrs O’s account about what she was told; the documentation; and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed what’s been said, I think it likely P gave Mrs O a false and misleading 
impression of the self-funding nature of the system. Given her lack of prior interest and the 
financial burden she took on I find Mrs O’s account of what she was told by P credible and 
persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why she would have 
seen this purchase appealing had P not given the reassurances she said she received.  
 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mrs O expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. 
But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which 
Mrs O went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were seriously 
misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mrs O’s point of view. 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mrs O in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Mrs O and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
 
 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mrs O and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mrs O a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Mrs O’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mrs O received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mrs O received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. 
Mrs O will need to supply, where available, her last FIT benefits received, electricity bills and 
meter readings to Creation. Although I understand Mrs O has now moved, so won’t have 
current bills and readings.  
While our investigator set out various options for how the overpayments could be treated, 
seeing as though I understand the agreement is now paid off, I think there’s only one viable 
option for my directions.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
I also find Creation’s refusal to consider the s.140A claim has also caused Mrs O some 
further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by our investigator 
is broadly a fair way to recognise that. 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mrs O’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mrs O has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Mrs O’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received from the 
start date of the loan, up until the end of the term * – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mrs O should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mrs O 
• 
Pay Mrs O £100 compensation 
*Where Mrs O is unable to provide all the details of her meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied she has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it to follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs O how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mrs O a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4142154
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms U complains about a claim she made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (‘Creation’) in 
respect of goods she financed with it.
What happened
Ms U purchased a high specification PC from a retailer (‘the supplier’) using a loan from 
Creation.
Ms U says she sent the item back using the returns process but has not received a refund 
from the supplier.
Ms U raised a claim with Creation and it considered this in light of Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’). However, it rejected the claim. In summary, it said 
that investigations into the matter show that the parcel Ms U returned was empty.
Ms U referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint about 
Creation’s handling of the claim. In the circumstances (and with Section 75 in mind) she was 
unable to fairly conclude that Creation should have written off the finance/refunded Ms U.
Ms U disagrees. In summary, she says that:

she was chasing the supplier for about 2 months for a refund and they promised in 
webchats that it would be processed;

only after this time did the supplier give the outcome of its investigation – confirming 
that it had received an empty box; and 

the supplier took too long to carry out its investigation – it should have told her 
sooner that the box was empty and a picture of an empty box does not show that she 
actually sent out an empty box.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ms U is represented in bringing her complaint – so references to Ms U are taken to 
include her representative (who was also involved in the contact with the supplier about the 
return of the goods).
I have considered the evidence the parties have submitted but won’t be commenting on 
everything - only what I consider to be central to this complaint. This is not intended as a 
discourtesy but simply reflects my role in resolving dispute informally.
It is important to underline here that Creation did not supply the goods which Ms U is in 
dispute about. Creation is not responsible for all general customer service issues which Ms 
U encountered with the supplier. When considering whether Creation has acted fairly and 
reasonably here I look at its role as a provider of financial services. In that respect I consider 
Section 75 to be the key matter here – and one which will be the focus of my decision.
Section 75 allows Ms U in certain circumstances to hold Creation responsible for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods it financed. 
There are certain criteria which are set out in law for Section 75 to apply – and after 
considering these I am broadly satisfied that Ms U has a claim against Creation for potential 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods here.
The terms and conditions of the supplier in respect of refunds for unwanted goods say that 
the goods must be returned within a set time limit, complete, undamaged and with proof of 
purchase. The terms go on to say that if the customer fails to return the goods in this manner 
the supplier might charge for costs in recovering the goods or the value of the missing or 
damaged items. So if Ms U had not returned the goods to the supplier – then it would be 
within its rights contractually not to refund her. 
The issue here is not straightforward as it involves high value goods effectively going 
missing with countered allegations on both sides. In coming to my findings I have to keep in 
mind that I am unable to compel witnesses or investigate in the manner a court or other 
authorities might. 
Although I fully take into account what Ms U has said, there is photographic evidence and 
testimony from the supplier (including written corroboration from the courier company) that 
the PC did not arrive in the warehouse and that the weight on arrival was recorded as 1.5kg 
rather than the 17kg expected for an item of this type. There are also photos which the 
warehouse took that appear to show Ms U’s labelled box arrived empty.
I note Ms U’s point that the photo of an empty box alone is not conclusive and I acknowledge 
there are other possibilities here. But these circumstances are not straightforward as I have 
already said. The question I have to answer is whether in the circumstances it is fair and 
reasonable to say that Creation (in light of its specific liability in respect of Section 75) should 
have upheld the claim and issued a refund. And I think there are too many questions and 
insufficient evidence here to say the supplier has likely breached its contract with Ms U by 
not issuing a refund in the circumstances – so I don’t think Creation acted unfairly when it 
considered the claim. 
I have noted what Ms U says about the web chat – it appears some staff at the supplier were 
not aware of the investigations it was undertaking on the matter and mistakenly indicated a 
refund would be processed. But I don’t think this is a breach of contract or persuasive proof 
of one– it is a customer service issue.
I have also considered what appears to be an automated confirmation that the box was 
received by the supplier. But this alone is not conclusive in showing the item was returned to 
the supplier. I know Ms U has said this is a misrepresentation – but for the purposes of 
Section 75 a misrepresentation is something that induces you to enter into a contract. So I 
don’t think this is a misrepresentation which Creation is liable for here.
I note what Ms U has said about how long the supplier’s investigation took – which wasn’t 
ideal. But this in itself is not a breach of contract which Creation is liable for. Nor do I think 
the delay in itself serves as conclusive evidence of a breach of contract in respect of the 
receipt of goods.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms U. However, as I have said, my role is 
limited to informal dispute resolution looking at Creation’s responsibilities here via Section 
75. My decision does not prevent Ms U from taking the supplier to court or reporting the 
matter to other authorities if she wishes to do so.
My final decision
I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4148307
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim he’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”).
Mr M has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr M throughout.
What happened
On 15 January 2014, Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay 
for a £11,100 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “The Supplier Business”. The loan 
amount was for £11,100 and the total amount payable under the agreement was 
£17,427.60 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £145.23.
Mr M told us that he paid off the loan from his pension in 2022.
Creation told us that they received Mr M’s letter of complaint on 7 February 2020. In the 
complaint Mr M explained that he considered he had a valid claim against it under s75 due 
to misrepresentation and breach of contract by The Supplier Business. Mr M said he’d 
been told he could be entitled to a solar panel system at no cost to him. He says he was 
told the system would be fully self-funding. 
In summary, Mr M says:

The Supplier Business’s representative misled him that the system would pay for 
itself from the FIT payments he would receive and the savings he would make. 
The income and savings have not been sufficient to cover the cost of the 
borrowing. 

He was induced into the agreement by false statements from The Supplier 
Business. He wouldn’t have entered into the agreement had it not been for those 
statements.
On the basis of the above Mr M said he had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. 
To resolve the claim and complaint, Mr M requested that Creation should make a payment 
to settle the matter.
Creation told us that they received Mr M’s letter of complaint on 7 February 2020. Creation 
provided a final response letter to the complaint on 18 March 2020. Creation rejected Mr 
M’s complaint on the basis it was made out of time based on their understanding of the 
FCA’s DISP rules. Creation did not comment on the s75 claim so far as it concerned a 
breach of contract or the aspect of the complaint about Section 140A (s140A) of the CCA 
in its final response. 
Mr M was unhappy with Creation’s final response and brought his complaint to this service 
on 21 April 2020 and asked us to review the complaint.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred. Consequently, 
Creation believe that it has no liability to Mr M under said Act and so they have no liability 
under s75 of the CCA.
I have taken this to mean that Creation have rejected Mr M’s s75 claim for 
misrepresentation on the basis it was ‘time-barred’ taking into account the Limitation Act 
1980 (the ‘LA’). 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 21 April 
2020, which is the date when Mr M’s representative sent details of his complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr M’s s75 complaint. I will then 
consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr M’s complaint in relation to an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account s140A of the CCA, before turning to the merits of 
the complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within the scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
Mr M brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 21 April 2020. The 
event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr M’s s75 claim on 
18 March 2020. So, his complaint in relation to the s75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our service’s jurisdiction. 
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr M’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Mr M is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship was still running in 2022 before it was paid off. The 
complaint in relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service before that date, on 
21 April 2020. So, the s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event 
complained of and has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about an alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into on 15 January 2014, based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that The Supplier Business (acting on 
behalf of Creation) warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the 
capacity to finance the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged 
breach of contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 7 February 2020, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against The Supplier Business for misrepresentation 
and breach of contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around January 
2014.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by The Supplier 
Business can be considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of Appeal’s 
judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 (“Scotland”) 
which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an unfair relationship 
claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming The Supplier Business 
to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations The Supplier Business carried out direct with Mr M.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider The Supplier Business’s negotiations and arrangements 
for which Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Mr M.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Mr M told us he was informed he could be entitled to have a Solar System at absolutely no 
cost to him. Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Mr M and The Supplier Business. So, I have seen no documentary 
evidence from Creation that undermines Mr M’s testimony.  
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Mr M’s allegation he was told the solar system would be self-funding. 
The loan agreement sets out Mr M’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the 
monthly cost of that. But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings 
that may be generated. And that is true of the MCS Installation Certificate. 
There is a disputed document that was provided by Mr M’s representative three years 
after the complaint was raised with us. It seems to suggest that The Supplier Business did 
suggest the income produced from the Solar panels would be enough to make the loan 
repayments. But The Supplier Business said this was not a sales form that they used. And 
this was not undermined by Mr M’s testimony, who told us that he couldn’t recall having 
seen the document at the time of the sale. And so, I think it more likely that this document 
was not one that Mr M relied on in making his decision to act in 2014.
I have considered the document provided by The Supplier Business. It is called the 
“Customer Re-Cap & Satisfaction Survey”. The document contains 10 questions that Mr M 
had to answer ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to. Out of the first six questions, five are asking whether the 
financial benefits of the solar panels have been adequately explained to Mr M. Mr M has 
answered these in the affirmative and signed the form at the bottom of the document the 
same date as the loan agreement. This suggests this document was used at the meeting 
in which Mr M agreed to the loan. 
I’ve redacted the naming of the Supplier Business in the questions. The questions include,
“Has the energy assessor fully explained in detail how the Solar System installed will save 
you money off your electricity bill to complete Satisfaction?
Has the energy assessor fully explained in detail how the Solar System will save you 
money off your gas bill to complete satisfaction?
Do you fully understand how the Passive/Voltage optimizer will reduce your Electricity bill 
and extend the lift of your electrical products?
Has the government F.I.T. scheme and solar system been fully explained to your 
Complete satisfaction?
Do you fully understand how the savings you make from the solar panels and the solar 
system along with the F.I.T. scheme will help pay back Your monthly repayment plan?”
I take this document to be a ‘Re-Cap’ of the discussion that took place as the named 
document suggests. As such it seems most likely that the meeting was one in which The 
Supplier Business was stressing the benefits of getting solar energy. Five of the first six 
questions are about savings that could be made and income that could be produced from 
the solar system and how these ‘will help pay back your monthly repayment plan’.  
I am not pretending this is straightforward. But I do feel that this document’s focus on the 
financial benefits of the solar system does make it seem more likely that Mr M was told the 
benefits of the system would meet his loan repayments. In any event, none of the above 
undermines the testimony that Mr M has given us.
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr M had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before The Supplier Business contacted him. Mr M has said he only agreed to the 
purchase because the system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to 
understand why, in this particular case, Mr M would have agreed to install a solar panel 
system if his monthly outgoings would increase.
Mr M told us that The Supplier Business told him the income from the solar panel system 
would pay off the agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr M’s 
testimony seemed persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I 
have noted that Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that The Supplier Business did tell Mr M the scheme would be self-funding. On balance, I 
find Mr M’s account to be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,742.76 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Mr M’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
he’s achieved this benefit. The FIT statements I’ve seen do not seem to be complete but 
they suggest that Mr M was not achieving the kind of benefits that would have made the 
loan self-funding. I’ve not been supplied copies of Mr M’s electricity bills, so I don’t know 
what savings he made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s more likely than not the 
system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Mr M made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely The Supplier Business gave Mr M 
a false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I 
consider The Supplier Business’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of 
the transaction for the system, namely the benefits which Mr M was expected to receive 
by agreeing to installation of the system. I consider that The Supplier Business’s 
assurances in this regard likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel 
system would have the capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not 
have that effect they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr M went into the 
transaction. Either way, The Supplier Business’s assurances were seriously misleading 
and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr M’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for The Supplier Business’s negotiations 
with Mr M in respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of 
the solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Mr M and Creation to have been unfair.
Mr M has had to pay more than he expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Mr M otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Mr M fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr M and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr M a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of The Supplier Business’s assurances. That is, that Mr M’s loan repayments 
should amount to no more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the 
loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr M received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr M received by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Mr M may need to supply up to date details to help 
Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions when 
information is not available.
Mr M told us he settled the loan agreement in 2022. 
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr M made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr M’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr M should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr M paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr M paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Subject to receiving the available up to date FIT benefits, electricity bills, and
meter readings Creation should pay Mr M C + F
I agree Creation’s failure to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr M
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr M’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4158253
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Creation Consumer Finance Limited, trading as Creation has declined 
the claim, she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
In April 2022 Mrs T entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation for the supply and 
installation of a conservatory and front door. The total cost was £21,000. Mrs T paid £6,000 
deposit and borrowed £15,000 towards the purchase. She agreed to make monthly 
repayments of £216.89 over ten years.
Mrs T says the supplier advised that the installation would be completed by June 2022, but 
there was a delay in the supplier (who I’ll refer to as “W”) providing the conservatory window 
panels and she was unhappy with the fitting of the doors. Unable to resolve her concerns 
with W, Mrs T contacted Creation in September 2022 for help. Mrs T explained there was 
water ingress, due to the conservatory still being without window panels and advised the 
problems with the doors were still outstanding. 
Creation got in touch with W for an update and agreed to put Mrs T’s account on hold. Due 
to the water ingress and the weather conditions Mrs T arranged for a third party to supply 
and fit the missing window panels for £720 in September 2022. She provided Creation with 
photographs showing the outstanding issues with the doors. In October 2022 W advised the 
window panels were in stock and it could now fit the window panels, it also advised Creation 
that it had completed all outstanding remedial works. On this basis Creation declined Mrs T’s 
section 75 claim.
Unhappy with the outcome Mrs T complained, Creation didn’t think it had done anything 
wrong. Mrs T referred her complaint to our service. She also provided evidence of leaking by 
the door seal, detached guttering, and gaps around the doors. Mrs T discovered that 
Creation had recorded adverse information on her credit file, which she said had impacted 
her credit rating. 
Our investigator thought there was sufficient evidence to show the installation wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality, so thought there had been a breach of contract by W. Due to the delays 
and the problem with the water ingress, he thought it was reasonable for Mrs T to arrange 
for another supplier to supply and fit the window panels. He recommended that Creation 
reduce the cost of the finance agreement by the £720 cost incurred for the window panels. 
He also said Creation should arrange for the outstanding remedial work to the doors and 
guttering. And recommended that it remove any adverse information from Mrs T’s credit file 
and pay her £300 compensation to reflect the frustration caused.
Creation agreed with the investigator’s recommendations. Mrs T didn’t. She doesn’t think the 
compensation goes far enough. She wants the finance agreement to be cancelled and for no 
further payments to be due, she says she will arrange for the remedial works to be 
completed. 
The case was passed to me for a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point, it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, which reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or in whole, with a point-
of-sale loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. I’m not 
determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 
75 into account when I think about what’s a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I don’t 
have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering breach 
of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met. Mrs T has told us how unhappy she is with W’s service; she experienced a 
significant delay getting the window panels and there is still some remedial work 
outstanding. However, I think it would be helpful if I clarify that I’m not looking at W, rather 
my role is to consider whether Creation handled her section 75 claim fairly and if not, 
whether I think it needs to take any action to resolve her complaint.
was there a breach of contract?
I’m satisfied from the images and video footage provided by Mrs T of the front door, 
conservatory doors and the guttering that the work carried out by W wasn’t satisfactory. In 
addition, W failed to supply and fit the window panels within a reasonable length of time. In 
the circumstances I’m satisfied that the W’s actions amount to a breach of contract.
 
The usual remedy for a breach of contract is to put the consumer in the same position as if 
the breach hadn’t occurred. That might be reimbursing costs incurred or requiring remedial 
work to take place. I’m aware that more recently Mrs T has asked for the finance agreement 
to be cancelled with nothing further to pay, she has said this will allow her to arrange for 
remedial works herself.
Mrs T hasn’t provided a report or anything to indicate the outstanding issues can’t be 
addressed without difficulty nor anything to show the cost of the remedial works is anywhere 
near the value of the outstanding finance. In the circumstances, I don’t think it would be fair 
to require Creation to write off the remaining balance on the loan agreement.
 
Mrs T has evidenced she paid another supplier for the window panels to be supplied and 
fitted. So, I think a proportionate solution is for Creation to either reduce Mrs T’s finance 
agreement by the £720 or if she prefers, for it to refund her the £720 payment, adding 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of the payment until the date of settlement. Given 
Mrs T has lost faith in W and she is concerned there may be additional issues due to the 
poor installation, I think it is fair for Creation to arrange for a suitably qualified contractor (this 
should be someone, other than W) to inspect the installation and complete any outstanding 
remedial works identified with the conservatory installation, guttering and doors. 
adverse credit information and customer service
Mrs T says Creation agreed to give her a payment holiday whilst it investigated her 
complaint. However, she says she wasn’t told this could negatively impact her credit score. 
And I can’t see that she was made aware of this, so I don’t think this was fair.
Mrs T says that as a result of the payment holiday her bank reduced her spending limit on 
her credit card. And she has provided a letter from her bank in December 2022. I can’t be 
sure whether Mrs T would have agreed to the payment holiday if she had been made aware 
that it could impact her credit rating or whether she would’ve continued to make her monthly 
payments; In any event a card issuer can decrease credit limits at will for a number of 
different reasons and the letter from the bank doesn’t confirm the payment holiday was the 
sole reason for the reduced credit limit. Neither has Mrs T provided any evidence to show 
she lost out financially due to the impact of the payment holiday. In the circumstances, I think 
it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to remove all adverse information recorded on Mrs T’s 
credit file.
Mrs T has told us how stressful it was waiting for W to fit the window panels and about the 
stress caused by it making various promises but not resolving the outstanding issues. And 
whilst I sympathise with her, I’m not considering W’s actions here. Having looked at the way 
Creation handled Mrs T’s section 75 claim; I think it handled the claim promptly. However, I 
do think it would have been reasonable for Creation to go back to Mrs T to check whether 
the remedial works had been completed, rather than just relying on what W had said, given 
Mrs T had provided it with photographs of the outstanding issues
.
Taking everything into consideration, I think it’s fair and reasonable for Creation to pay Mrs T 
£300 compensation to reflect the frustration caused by not advising her about the impact of a 
payment holiday and for failing to check with her that W had completed the outstanding 
remedial works.
 
I appreciate that Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision, given how strongly she feels 
about what happened. She doesn’t have to accept my decision and may wish to pursue this 
matter through alternative routes. But this decision brings our involvement in this matter to 
an end.   
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Limited, 
trading as Creation to;

reduce the outstanding balance of the fixed sum loan agreement by £720 (to reflect 
the payment made to the third party to supply and install the window panels) or if Mrs 
T prefers, refund her the £720 payment, adding 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of the payment until the date of settlement

arrange for the inspection of the conservatory installation, guttering and front door 
and organise for any issues identified to be remedied by a suitably qualified 
contractor (this should be someone, other than W)

remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement recorded on Mrs T’s 
credit file (for clarification this includes any default recorded) and;

pay Mrs T £300 compensation to reflect the distress and frustration it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4158490
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In May 2013, Mr E bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call “P” 
using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The agreement sets out the amount of credit 
is £11,155, the monthly payments are £145.94, the total charge for credit is £6,222.80, a 
£135 arrangement fee is included, and the total amount payable is £17,512.80.
Mr E sent a letter of claim to Creation on 27 September 2022, explaining he thought the 
system was mis-sold. In summary he said:

He was told by P that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) payments and electricity saving from 
the system would cover the cost of the loan repayments 

P said he had guaranteed income for 20 years

He would earn 10% per annum tax free

His property value would increase 

The system was maintenance free with a 25-year life expectancy
Mr E also said that there had been breaches under the CCA and Financial Conduct Authority 
(‘FCA’) rules, and the relationship between Creation and himself was unfair under s.140A 
because either Creation or P:

Failed to undertake a suitable and sufficient creditworthiness assessment

Failed to supply pre contractual information, and where information was provided, he 
wasn’t given any time to consider it

Failed to provide Mr E with a cancellation notice

Conducted a high-pressure sale

Didn’t explain the full details of the credit agreement

Didn’t disclose payment of any commission made and/or received 
Creation responded to the claim on 17 February 2023 in its final response. It considered 
Mr E had brought his claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr E referred his complaint to our service on 22 
February 2023.
An investigator considered Mr E’s complaint, she thought that – 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr E and 
Creation. 
She recommended that Mr E keep the system and Creation take into account what Mr E had 
paid so far, along with the benefits he received, making sure the system was effectively self-
funding. And that Creation should pay Mr E £100 for the trouble and upset caused by not 
originally looking into the s.140A complaint. 
I can’t see that either party responded so, the case was progressed to the next stage of our 
process, an Ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr E’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr E’s s.75 claim on 
17 February 2023. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr E 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2023. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr E. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 22 February 2023, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘S.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr E. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.
What happened?
Mr E has said he was told by P’s representative that the monthly payments and savings he 
would receive would cover his monthly finance payments. Mr E told us that he’d not 
considered purchasing solar panels before P approached him, and I haven’t seen any other 
evidence Mr E had any prior interest in purchasing them. 
Mr E has said he remembers being given documentation from P; however, he’s not been 
able to locate everything. I’ve looked at the documents Mr E has been able to provide to see 
if there was anything contained within them that made it clear that the solar panel system 
wouldn’t be self-funding. 
I’ve considered Mr E’s loan agreement. I’m satisfied it clearly sets out, amongst other things, 
the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, the term of the 
loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
I haven’t been provided with anything further from the point of sale e.g., a copy of the 
contract, so I’m not able to say if the likely financial benefits of the system are included on 
further documents, or if there was a way for Mr E to compare his total costs against the 
financial benefits he was allegedly being promised. 
However, Mr E has said the financial benefits were discussed. So, I’ve looked at a copy of 
P’s website from May 2013, on the main page it states –
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems.

Tax free

High yield

No risk

Inflation proof

Non depreciating asset’
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated – 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes –
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Mr E’s 
testimony that P’s representative told him the monthly payments and savings he would 
receive would cover his monthly finance payments. 
So, I find what Mr E’s said believable, I think P’s website supports his testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and his savings on his electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation. 
I think Mr E would have looked to P’s representative to help him understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much he would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Mr E’s testimony that he was told by 
P’s representative the system would be self-funding.
Important to note here are the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code 
(‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the renewable energy 
consumer Code and makes sure that its members comply with it.
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place.
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved -  

allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback

allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract
So, the Panel decided P was in breach of Section 5.2 of the code (which required members 
not to provide false or misleading information to consumers) and Section 5.3 (which 
concerned members providing clear information so consumers could make an informed 
decision). Given RECC’s concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to 
terminate P’s membership of RECC.
Whilst I accept that the above is findings on different cases the RECC was looking at, the 
findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Mr E has 
complained about, at a similar time he was sold his system.
I think it important to highlight the following points the panel considered in its decision: 

‘The Regulator was particularly uncomfortable with the fact that so many consumers 
appeared not to understand the benefit of the system sold. They were told one thing 
but the reality was different’ 

‘There is a large volume of complaints with a consistent theme that suggest that 
some consumers have been given false or misleading information before signing 
contracts. … The Panel decided that a fundamental cultural change was needed 
within the company…. Given the duration, seriousness and breadth of the breaches 
upheld… [P’s membership of RECC] should be terminated.’
Creation have also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016 
available on companies house. The report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought 
up by Creation, which led to it terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it 
expected claims from consumers under s.75. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it 
had serious concerns about the way P was selling Solar Panels.
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Mr E’s testimony.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr E’s said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest Mr E left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of £145.94, payable for 10 years. Given his lack of prior interest and the financial 
burden he took on I find Mr E’s account of what he was told by P, credible and persuasive. 
The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I can’t see why he would have seen this 
purchase appealing had he not been given the reassurances he’s said he received from P. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £1,751.28 per year. Mr E’s system looks like it’s performing less 
than the estimate on his MCS certificate. Mr E has mentioned that he’s been advised since 
installation that the panels aren’t working as he thought they would. Essentially, the way P 
installed the panels means that if one goes into shade all the rest switch off. This isn’t 
something that was part of the original complaint that Creation considered, which is what I’m 
looking at here. 
However, importantly the system has not and would not produce enough benefits based on 
the actual and estimated output, to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these 
statements were not true. I think P’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr E’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think P’s 
representative would have known that Mr E’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr E.
Considering Mr E’s account about what he was told, P’s website, RECC’s findings, 
Creation’s actions and the fact it hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Mr E a 
false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr E was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr E went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr E’s point 
of view.
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Mr E in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out.
The s.75 complaint and additional s.140A complaint points
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr E’s s.75 complaint and his other s.140A complaint points. Furthermore, this doesn’t 
stop me from reaching a fair outcome in the circumstances.  
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr E and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr E a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of P’s assurances. That is, that Mr E’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr E received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr E received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr E 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation. Mr E’s loan has now run to full term; therefore, 
he will only have one option that’s tenable as opposed to the 4 the investigator 
recommended.
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr E’s complaint in a reasonable 
timeframe, with minimal communication, caused Mr E some degree of trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this, and in addition to what I have already set out above, Creation should also 
pay Mr E £100.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Mr E’s complaint. To put things right Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Calculate the total payments Mr E has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A 

Use Mr E’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
loan term* – B 

Use B to recalculate what Mr E should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C 

Reimburse C to Mr E

Pay Mr E £100 for trouble and upset caused
*Where Mr E has not been able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity 
bills and/or FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for 
Creation to complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using 
known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2024.
 
Helen Boulton-Agg
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4158520
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr E has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”)’s response to a 
claim he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) and in 
relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking into account Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of 
the CCA.
What happened
In November 2013, Mr E bought a solar panel system (‘the system’), from a company I’ll call 
“M”, using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. 
Mr E made a claim to Creation on 14 September 2021. He said that he was told by M that he 
would never be out of pocket because the system would pay for itself through savings on his 
electricity bills and income from the Feed-In Tariff (“FIT"). However, that hasn’t happened, 
and he’s suffered a financial loss. He also believed that what happened at the time of the 
sale created an unfair relationship between himself and Creation. 
Creation rejected the claim saying that Mr E had brought his claim more than six years after 
the cause of action occurred under the Limitation Act (‘LA’). 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr E made a complaint about this and referred it to our 
service.
An investigator considered Mr E’s complaint. The investigator thought that:

Given the s.75 claim was likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s answer 
seemed fair in respect of that. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time since the credit agreement was ongoing at the time Mr E contacted 
Creation. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Mr E and 
Creation. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr E keep the system and Creation take into account 
what Mr E had paid so far, along with the benefits he received, and make sure the system 
was effectively self-funding. 
Mr E accepted the investigator’s view. Creation did not respond. So, the case was 
progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve decided to uphold this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Mr E’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal by 
Creation to accept and pay his s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship under 
s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Mr E’s s.75 claim on 
9 November 2021. This relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory jurisdiction. Mr E 
brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 24 November 2021. So, his 
complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
The complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continued, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr E. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time it was referred to the ombudsman service on 24 November 2021, so the complaint 
has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
My findings on the merits of the complaint
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and breach of contract cause of action arose 
when an agreement was entered into on 29 November 2013. Mr E brought his s.75 claim to 
Creation on 14 September 2021. That is more than six years after he entered into the 
agreement with Creation. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have 
rejected the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
The complaint about an unfair relationship under s.140A 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
Court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr E. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Mr E has said that he was told by M’s representative that he would never be out of pocket 
because the system would pay for itself through savings on his electricity bills and income 
from selling the electricity generated. Mr E said the sale came about following a door-to-door 
salesperson knocking on his door. And that prior to this he had no interest in getting solar 
panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Mr E and by M to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The credit agreement was signed on 29 November 2013. This included the following 
information:

Cash price of the system
£5,750.00

Amount of credit 
£5,750.00

Interest charge
£3,169.86

Total amount payable 
£8,919.86

120 monthly repayments of £74.33 per month (this is £891.96 per year)
I’ve considered the order form signed by Mr E and M. This is undated but M says it would’ve 
been signed at the same meeting as the credit agreement, on 29 November 2013. The likely 
financial benefits of the system aren’t included on this document. Mr E provided the above 
documents to us so I can be sure that he was given a copy of this after he signed it. 
However, M has provided a copy of an additional document, which Mr E did not have, 
showing a personalised estimate of the benefits of the system over:

One year 
£542 

The system’s lifetime
£26,955.82
It also showed a payback time of 9 years – suggesting that the system would pay for itself 
within the 10-year term of the loan. This was alongside a graph which shows the overall 
balance is negative in the first 8 years, suggesting the repayments would exceed the 
benefits in that time. However, because this document is undated and unsigned and Mr E 
did not have a copy of it in his records, I cannot be sure if or when Mr E was given or shown 
it. 
Overall, I do not think there is sufficient evidence that Mr E was provided this estimated 
benefits document, or that it reflects what he was told at the time. So, I don’t think that Mr E 
had clear enough information to compare the costs and benefits or to be able to realise that 
he would be out of pocket – contrary to what he remembers being told. 
I am also concerned that the estimated payback time of 9 years does not appear to be very 
realistic. I don’t know what assumptions were used (as these are not shown on the 
document) but, making what I consider reasonable assumptions at the time of sale, I have 
calculated that a more likely payback time would be around 15 years. This is significantly 
longer than shown on the document and means that Mr E is likely to be out of pocket for a 
significant period of time. 
Mr E has explained that he had no interest in solar panels prior to M contacting him, and he 
wouldn’t have purchased the system if he’d been aware that he would be out of pocket for 
any period. While Mr E has received FIT payments he has not noticed any significant 
savings on his electricity bills. 
Overall, considering all the evidence, I find what Mr E’s said to be sufficiently plausible and 
persuasive. It is not clear that Mr E was shown the estimated benefits document, and in any 
case I have concerns about whether the assumptions used in those estimates were 
reasonable. In my opinion the benefits of the system were never likely to cover the cost of 
the loan on a monthly basis or within the loan term. Yet Mr E was left with the impression 
that he would at no point be out of pocket. 
Creation hasn’t provided a response to our investigator’s assessment, so I don’t know its 
reasons for disputing the outcome that was reached. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £891.96 per year. Mr E’s system was performing as expected in 
terms of electricity generation and he was receiving FIT payments, but he has not seen the 
expected level of electricity savings – and thus has not received the promised financial 
benefits. I’ve also found that he was unlikely to receive the level of benefit that he was told 
he would. So, I’m satisfied that what he was told verbally was not true. 
I think that M’s salesperson must reasonably have been aware that Mr E’s system would not 
have produced benefits at this level, given the estimated benefit document produced at that 
time showed Mr E would be out of pocket. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that 
had to be estimated, I think the assumptions used were unreasonable and made the benefits 
appear much higher than was realistically possible. And, even using those unreasonably 
generous estimates, the salesman would have known that Mr E’s system would not produce 
enough benefits so that Mr E would not be out of pocket at any point.
Considering all of this, I think it likely that M gave Mr E a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. 
I think M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr E was expected to receive by agreeing to 
purchase the system. I think that M’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to a 
contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments such that Mr E would not be out of pocket. But, even if they did not have that 
effect, they nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr E went into the transaction. 
Either way, I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the 
purpose of the transaction from Mr E’s point of view.
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Mr E in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr E 
and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan Mr E would 
otherwise not have taken out.
Fair compensation 
In all the circumstances, I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr E and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Mr E a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected as a result 
of M’s assurances. That is, that Mr E’s loan repayments should amount to no more than the 
financial benefits he received for the duration of the loan agreement. 
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr E received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr E received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. If 
Creation requires, if possible, Mr E will need to supply up to date details, where available, of 
all FIT benefits received, electricity bills and current meter readings to Creation. 
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr E has made 
towards the solar panel system up until the date of settlement – A

Use Mr E’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits she received up until 
the date of settlement* – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr E should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement** – C

Reimburse C to Mr E

Use Mr E’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he will receive for the 
period between the settlement of her complaint and the end of the original loan term* 
– D

Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan.

Pay Mr E an additional £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience cause 
by Creation rejecting Mr E’s entire claim as having been made too late when it ought 
to have been evident to Creation that part of it was not.
*Where Mr E is not able to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, Creation should use known and reasonably assumed benefits. 
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I uphold Mr E’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2024.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4163344
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss L complains that the car she acquired financed through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out fully by 
the investigator, so I won’t repeat them again here. Instead I’ll focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I’ve outlined 
my reasons below. 
A used car was supplied to Miss L under a hire purchase agreement with CCF that she 
signed in May 2022. The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) covers agreements like the one Miss 
L signed. CCF as the supplier of the car was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time – whether it was of satisfactory quality will depend on several 
factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mr L was about seven years old and had covered 63,188 miles. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means the components within the car must 
be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
Miss L has reported that from the very beginning when she first collected the car it has had 
numerous faults, some recurring. She said she tried to return the car within the first 30 days, 
but this was refused by the dealership, who claimed it had a right to repair. She eventually 
complained to CCF. CCF accepted that the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality and agreed that 
Miss L could return it. Miss L has also accepted that the warranty and GAP insurance do not 
form part of the finance agreement and therefore cannot be part of the financial remedy. But 
Miss L didn’t agree with the usage charge levied. So as the parties agree that the car can be 
returned it’s up to me to decide any financial remedy. 
Miss L isn’t happy that she’s been charged for using the car. She has said over the short 
time she’s had the car it’s been in for repair for approximately four months. She has said she 
doesn’t agree to any deductions as she was forced to take the car back when it was 
repaired. She said she had no other choice but to drive it as she'd spent all her savings to 
purchase it and have no other means of transport. She said it's the dealership who failed to 
do the right thing and take the car back after one repair attempt like it said it would. She also 
said CCF didn't follow up on her complaint in a timely manner. Miss L went on to say that 
she’s had to use the car as a result of their actions. She didn't understand why she should 
be punished by being charged for usage. I can see that Miss L has had repeated issues with 
the car and she has tried to get a resolution from the dealership and from CCF. I can 
understand her strength of feeling in this matter. I'm not disputing the dealership refused to 
take the car back initially, but it did subsequently agree that Miss L could reject the car with  
a charge of £1,000 for usage.
The CRA sets out that where the final right to reject is exercised any refund can be reduced 
by a deduction taking account the use the consumer has had of the goods (in this case, the 
car). So while I'm sympathetic with Miss L as she feels she's being punished by being 
charged for using the car she wanted to reject, she has driven approximately 17,000 miles 
between May 2022 and October 2023. She has said that much of that mileage has been 
because of the distance she's had to travel to take the car for repair with the dealership.
It was Miss L's choice where to purchase her car but even considering mileage generated by 
the car repairs the mileage she's added to the car is still above average. During the periods 
when the car has been in for repair Miss L was provided with a courtesy car. I accept that 
this courtesy car wasn't always a like for like replacement, for example the height of the car, 
and manual versus automatic, but she was kept mobile.
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and to 
find a solution for the individual consumer, it's not to penalise the business. So I think it 
reasonable that CCF retains the monthly rental payments. 
I can see however that Miss L has been significantly inconvenienced by the problems with 
the car and the service she has received in trying to get it returned or repaired. And she's 
had issues with the courtesy cars she's received. So I think it fair and reasonable that CCF 
pays her £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the faulty car has caused. 
Miss L has said she has spent money on a service, an MOT and road tax. As these are 
considered costs associated with running a car I wouldn't be looking to refund these as Miss 
L would have had to have paid for these had she had a different car. In her response to our 
investigator's view Miss L said she had very recently had to pay to have the car repaired. On 
production of a receipt for this work CCF should refund her this money.
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must
1.
end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further owed;
2.
collect the car at no cost to Miss L;
3.
refund the £2,902 deposit paid against the hire purchase agreement;
4.
refund money paid for repairs over and above car servicing on production of the 
receipt(s);
5.
remove any adverse information from her credit file. The credit file should be marked 
as settled in full, or something similar, and should not show as voluntary termination;
6.
pay Miss L £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the faulty car;
7.
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts (3 and 4 above) from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4182867
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss S complains about the supply and installation of five windows and a door to her home. 
To pay for the goods and their installation, Miss S used a fixed sum loan with Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In February 2021, a supplier, who I’ll call ‘A’, completed a survey at Miss S’s home to help 
them provide her with a quote for some new windows and a door. Shortly after reaching an 
agreement with A, Miss S sent them an email to say she had changed her mind. She says A 
told her that as they had already started to manufacture the goods she’d agreed to buy, it 
was too late to cancel her order. 
A week after Miss S’s conversation with A, she signed a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Creation, to pay for the goods and installation. A few months later in June 2021, A 
completed the work to Miss S’s home, prompting Creation to make the payment to A and for 
Miss S’s fixed sum loan to start. 
But, soon after the installation, Miss S noticed some parts of the work she was wasn’t happy 
with. Amongst other things, she said there were large gaps around the windows, evidence of 
condensation and that the front door didn’t lock properly. Miss S sent several messages to 
A, but didn’t get a response. So, she raised a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (‘section 75’) with Creation. 
Neither Miss S, Creation nor A could agree on the repairs needed to put things right. So, 
Miss S complained to Creation about how they’d handled her section 75 claim. And because 
she remained unhappy with Creation’s response to her complaint, Miss S contacted us to 
look into her case. 
While we were looking into her complaint, Miss S arranged for a repair to the door handle. 
She also paid for an independent report to be carried out by an engineer, to inspect the 
installation of the windows and the door. 
The report concluded that building regulation compliance hadn’t been achieved and that the 
installation hadn’t been surveyed in accordance with the relevant code of practice. To put 
things right, the report recommended the removal and replacement of three of the five 
windows. The report also said a fourth widow and the door needed repair, as well as some 
repairs to the plasterwork near the front door.
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded A had breached the contract 
they had with Miss S. So, under section 75 they said Creation needed to offer a remedy. The 
investigator found that Creation should end the fixed sum loan agreement, refund the 
repayments Miss S had made and pay her £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Additionally the investigator said Creation should remove any adverse information from 
Miss S’s credit file, pay for the cost of the inspection report and the repairs to the 
plasterwork. The conclusions went on to say that Miss S would then be free to have a 
different supplier carry out the replacements and repairs. 
Miss S accepted the investigator’s findings and provided quotes for the plasterwork she says 
is needed to her home. Creation accepted some of the points put forward by the investigator. 
But, they didn’t think they should be responsible for all of the repairs to the plasterwork. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, Miss S’s complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. After reviewing Miss S’s case, I issued a provisional decision that said:
I’m aware of the time that has elapsed since Miss S first raised her complaint with Creation. 
Indeed it has been around two years since the work was completed by A and from when 
Miss S first raised her concerns. I acknowledge the very difficult personal circumstances 
which Miss S has explained to us. I also empathise with the difficulties she must have had, 
with keeping her home safe and warm. 
Within my decision, I’ve summarised the various circumstances of the complaint. I don’t 
intend any discourtesy by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I’m required 
to decide matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Miss S and 
Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s not 
because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
The fixed sum loan agreement 
Miss S paid for the five windows and the door using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement, and our service is able to consider complaints relating 
to these sorts of agreements. 
The relevant law in this case is section 75. This makes Creation responsible for a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by A, but only under certain conditions. Having considered that 
further, I think the necessary relationships between the parties exists and the claim is within 
the relevant financial limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services 
contract are not met. 
It's important to note that I’m not considering a complaint against A. I’m considering a 
complaint against Creation. So I have to consider Creation’s obligations as a provider of 
financial services. In this case I have to think about the liability for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under section 75. 
The supply and installation of the goods 
Miss S complained to A within a few days of the installation of the windows and the door. In 
her complaint, she said A had installed incorrectly sized frames, the windows showed signs 
of condensation and that the lock didn’t work properly on the front door. 
I can see from the correspondence between Miss S and Creation that the work carried out 
by A wasn’t looked at until a surveyor went to Miss S’s home in April 2022. I’m aware that 
part of this delay was because Miss S told Creation that she had to isolate, after suffering an 
injury. But, I can also see that A didn’t return to Miss S’s home, despite numerous attempts 
by Miss S to ask them to do so. 
In August 2022, Miss S paid £480 for an independent engineer to carry out an inspection 
report on the supply and installation of the windows and the door. Amongst other things, the 
report commented on three of the windows and said: 
“The size of the frame was not necessary and the windows should have had the 
same smaller section to make them uniform.” 
In her initial complaint to A, Miss S told them about her concerns about the size of the frame 
used on some of the windows. This led her to complain that A hadn’t provided the correct 
items and the items they had provided were not of a satisfactory quality. These concerns are 
supported by the photographs Miss S provided and those taken by the engineer in the 
inspection report. 
The engineer also found that: 
“The installation has not been surveyed in accordance with BS8213-4:2016 Windows 
and doors. Code of practice for the survey and installation of windows and external 
doorsets. Building regulation compliance has not been achieved with regard to 
Approved Document C – Site preparation and resistance to contaminants and 
moisture.” 
In the conclusions, the engineer said that three of the five windows and their frames should 
be replaced to match the standard of the others. The report also says that a fourth window 
needed repairs to the outside edge, the hinge and the glazing. Finally, the report also said 
repairs were needed to the external sill and a panel on the front door, while the area above 
the door needed replastering. 
After considering the report, Creation accepted that repairs were needed following the work 
carried out by A. Having thought about the report, the pictures provided by Miss S and the 
correspondence between all parties, I think A supplied goods that were not of a satisfactory 
quality to Miss S. 
I also think the installation of the windows and the door wasn’t performed with reasonable 
care or skill. So, in all the circumstances, I think A breached the contract they had with 
Miss S, meaning Creation should offer a remedy. 
Creation has asked that A be given the opportunity to put into place the recommendations of 
the engineer’s report. The CRA sets out that this is a remedy available to Creation. But, 
Miss S says she complained to A about the windows and the door, the day after they were 
installed. And I can see from the correspondence from Miss S, that she continued to ask A to 
carry out repairs in the months that followed. 
Having considered everything, I think Miss S has already given A and Creation a fair 
opportunity to carry out the repairs. I think A attempted repairs in April 2022, but they didn’t 
work and this is supported by the engineer’s report in August 2022. Because the repair didn’t 
work and wasn’t offered in a reasonable time, I think Miss S should be offered a different 
remedy to the steps proposed by Creation. So, I’ll now go on to outline what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome for Miss S. 
The remedies now available to Miss S 
Where there’s been a breach of contract, the CRA says that a customer has the right to ask 
for a price reduction or to reject the goods and claim a refund, if a repair or replacement 
doesn’t work. I’ve concluded that A breached their contract with Miss S and that a repair 
hasn’t worked. It then follows that Miss S is entitled to some of her money back, or to reject 
the goods and claim a refund. 
I think it’s reasonable for Mrs S to want the brand new windows and doors on her house to 
match. I also think it’s reasonable where Miss S says she’s lost confidence in A and would 
rather approach a different supplier. 
The engineer’s report suggests that five of the six items supplied by A, need repair or 
replacing completely. So, I think it’s fair for Creation to allow Miss S to reject the goods and 
claim a refund. Miss S will then be able to contact a supplier of her choice to carry out the 
work she needs. To put this remedy into place, I think Creation should allow Miss S to exit 
the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing further to pay. 
While Miss S has had use of the windows and the door since June 2021, she says she 
experienced difficulties keeping her home warm and safe. Miss S also says the fitting 
caused damage to her home, where she now needs to arrange further repairs. 
Again, after looking at the engineer’s report, the correspondence from Miss S and the 
photographs she’s provided, I’m persuaded by the majority of what Miss S says here. So, I 
don’t think Miss S has had the use she could have reasonably expected of the windows and 
doors. In all the circumstances, I think it’s fair for Creation to refund all of the repayments 
Miss S has made towards the fixed sum loan. 
In light of my conclusions about the ending of the agreement and the refund of repayments, I 
don’t think it would be fair for Miss S to suffer from any adverse information Creation may 
have recorded with credit reference agencies. So, I think Creation should remove any 
adverse information they may have passed on to those agencies, about the fixed sum loan 
agreement in Miss S’s name. 
To support her view about the unsatisfactory quality of the goods provided by A and 
unsatisfactory installation, Miss S paid a total of £480 for an engineer’s report. I’ve seen 
where Miss S paid for the report in two transactions of £240 on 1 August 2022 and 19 
September 2022 respectively. 
Creation have offered to pay for the cost of the report and I think that is fair, given they 
asked Miss S to evidence her concerns. It’s not clear if Creation have made the payment to 
Miss S for the cost of the report. But, if they haven’t, I think it’s fair they do so as part of the 
settlement to this complaint. 
Miss S has been without the use of the funds from the repayments she’s made towards the 
fixed sum loan agreement and for the cost of the engineer’s report. So, I also think it’s fair for 
Creation to add interest at 8% a year simple to those amounts, from the date they were paid, 
to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
More recently, Miss S has told us about extensive damage to her home, that she says was 
caused by the installation carried out by A. To support what she says, Miss S has provided a 
quote from a plasterer, to carry out work to the ceilings in her home. 
While I acknowledge the quote Miss S has sent to us and where the ceilings in her home 
may need to repair, I’m not persuaded this was caused by A. I don’t think the information 
provided by Miss S, draws a convincing enough connection between the installation and the 
damage to the ceilings she has complained about. Additionally, the engineer’s report doesn’t 
give details of any plaster work needed, other than an area above the front door. 
Having thought very carefully about the plasterwork needed, I think it’s fair for Creation to 
reimburse Miss S for the reasonable cost to repair to the plaster above the front door. From 
looking at the quote, I think it’s fair for Creation to pay Miss S up to £400 for those repairs. I 
also think it’s fair that Miss S provides Creation with description of the works carried out by 
her chosen tradesperson and evidence of the cost having been paid. 
I can see from what Miss S has told us, that she says she paid for another tradesperson to 
fix the door handle in May 2022. I can also see where the investigator has asked Miss S to 
provide evidence of the payment she made to that tradesperson. But, Miss S hasn’t been 
able to send that evidence to us. So, based on all the information we have, I don’t think it’s 
fair to ask Creation to reimburse the cost of the door handle repair to Miss S. 
Miss S first complained to Creation about A’s work in October 2021. I can see from 
Creation’s correspondence with Miss S that they didn’t provide their response to the 
complaint until May 2022, some seven months later. Additionally, I think Miss S made 
Creation aware that she had been trying to get A to review their work, since the day after the 
installation. 
After looking at all the evidence, I think Creation could have moved Miss S’s section 75 claim 
forward sooner. Instead I think they expected Miss S to organise and pay for an inspection, 
when it was clear she wasn’t satisfied with the installation so soon after A had finished their 
work. So, I think Creation caused Miss S distress and inconvenience during the handling of 
the section 75 claim and that they should make a payment to her in respect of that. 
I acknowledge that the majority of Miss S’s concerns are about how A has treated her. But, 
I’m only able to consider Creation’s obligations to her. In all the circumstances, I think it’s fair 
for Creation to pay £250 to Miss S, for the distress and inconvenience she has experienced.  
Finally, it’s likely the goods supplied by A will need to be removed and collected from 
Miss S’s home. Creation may wish to come to an agreement with Miss S about how that is 
done. In other words, they may be satisfied to allow the supplier chosen by Miss S, to carry 
out that work. 
While I think this part of the settlement will be for Creation to arrange, I’ll leave it to them and 
Miss S to reach an agreement, so all parties understand what is expected of each other.
Creation accepted the provisional decision and said they would leave it to Miss S and her 
new supplier to dispose of the door and the window.
Miss S replied to the provisional decision and said she was disappointed she would need to 
pay for some of the repair work needed to some of plasterwork in her home.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what Miss S has told us about the damage she’s found with the plasterwork 
in her home, other than those covered in the report. I’ve thought very carefully about what 
Miss S says and the quotations she’s provided from a plasterer. However, I’m still not 
persuaded that the evidence links the damage she’s seen, to the installation carried out by 
A. So, I don’t think it would be fair to ask Creation to meet the quotations Miss S has sent to 
us.
I’ve also thought more about the disposal of the windows and the doors, given Creation’s 
suggestion that Miss S’s new supplier be allowed to remove them from her home. Having 
done so, I think Creation’s suggestion is fair and it will allow Miss S to move forward with 
putting things right in her home, when she is ready to do so.
Although Creation has agreed that Miss S can do that, I think it’s fair to keep the disposal of 
the goods as part of the settlement to this complaint, so Miss S can refer to this decision, 
should she need to.
I’d like to thank both parties for acknowledging and replying to my provisional decision. But, 
in all the circumstances, I see no reasons why I should depart from the conclusions I 
reached in that decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons I’ve explained, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:
1.
allow Miss S to exit the fixed sum loan agreement with nothing further to pay;
2.
remove any adverse information in relation to the fixed sum loan agreement from 
Miss S’s records with credit reference agencies;
3.
make arrangements with Miss S to remove and collect the windows and the door;
4.
pay Miss S a total of £480 for the inspection report carried out on the installation of 
the windows and the door;
5.
refund all the repayments Miss S has made under the fixed sum loan agreement 
from inception, to the date of settlement of this complaint;
6.
add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to parts four and five of this settlement, 
from the dates they were paid, to the date of settlement of this complaint;
7.
reimburse Miss S for the reasonable cost (up to £400) for the repair to the plaster 
above of the front door, subject to a description of the works and evidence of the cost 
having been paid; and
8.
pay Miss S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Creation must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss S 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Creation deducts tax from any interest they pay to Miss S, they should provide Miss S with 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4183337
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd declined his application for credit, and 
unnecessarily recorded a search on his credit file.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr A applied for a credit facility with Creation with a £5,000 credit limit. 
This was to be a regulated running account credit agreement, and was called a “Your Plan” 
account. There is a dispute about whether his application was successful or not, but it is not 
in dispute that he was sent an email telling him that his application had been approved and 
his Your Plan account had been set up. Creation says this email was sent in error.
Mr A then tried to buy a laptop computer for £1,700 under a buy now pay later (“BNPL”) 
arrangement under his Your Plan account. But this purchase was refused, with no 
explanation, even though he had apparently just been given a £5,000 credit limit. He 
complained about that, and also about the fact that he now had a credit search recorded on 
his credit file unnecessarily, which could be to his detriment when applying for credit in the 
future.
In its final response letter, Creation told Mr A that his purchase had not been approved 
because his application had not met Creation’s internal lending criteria. Creation would not 
elaborate further, because its lending criteria were commercially sensitive and therefore 
confidential. This letter did not say that his application for a Your Plan account had been 
declined.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr A brought this complaint to our service. He asked 
for Creation’s credit search to be removed from his credit file.
Our investigator asked Creation for more detail about why Mr A’s purchase of a laptop had 
been declined. Creation said that Mr A had not passed its affordability and general lending 
criteria, but was not willing to divulge more. The investigator decided that he had not seen 
enough evidence to conclude that Mr A’s application had been declined fairly, so he upheld 
this complaint. He recommended that Creation remove the relevant search from Mr A’s 
credit file and pay him £100 for his trouble.
Mr A accepted that opinion. Creation did not. Because agreement could not be reached, this 
case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What I’ve provisionally decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint, but for entirely different reasons to 
my colleague’s. I agree with Creation that its internal lending criteria are its own business, 
and that it is not my role to review them. They are commercially sensitive, and so I will not 
insist on them being disclosed; and even if I did know what they were, it is entirely for 
Creation to decide what they should be (subject of course to its legal obligations under the 
Equality Act 2010). For that reason I have to disagree with my colleague’s opinion: I cannot 
conclude that Mr A’s application for credit was unfairly declined just because I do not know 
what Creation’s lending criteria were. But that does not get Creation off the hook.
I asked Creation why a further credit check had been carried out for the laptop purchase 
when Mr A already had a credit facility with Creation. Creation told me that in fact Mr A had 
not been approved for a Your Plan account, due to not meeting Creation’s lending criteria, 
and consequently his attempted purchase of the laptop under a BNPL arrangement had also 
been declined because Mr A did not have a line of credit with Creation.
This was the first time Creation had said that Mr A had not been approved for a Your Plan 
account.
Creation provided a screenshot to support this claim, which includes the text “Applicat [sic] 
status: REJECTED”. Creation also said that only one “hard search” (meaning a credit check 
which is recorded on someone’s credit file) had been carried out, and this had been when 
Mr A had applied for a Your Plan account. The subsequent credit search which had been 
carried out when he had tried to buy a laptop as a BNPL purchase had been a “soft search,” 
meaning that it will not appear on his credit file, and will not affect his credit rating.
Mr A showed me an email he had received from Creation on the day he had applied for the 
Your Plan account. Its subject heading is “Congratulations, your credit application has been 
approved.” In the message it says “We’re pleased to conﬁrm that you’ve been approved for a 
Your Plan account. Your account is all set up and you’re ready to shop.” It goes on to say 
that his credit limit is £5,000. But Creation told me that this email had been generated in 
error, and that his application had definitely been declined.
I also asked Creation to send me a copy of the terms and conditions of a Your Plan account. 
Creation sent me a copy of an executed running account credit agreement in Mr A’s name, 
signed by him and signed for and on behalf of Creation by a member of its staff, and dated 1 
December 2022. Creation also sent me evidence showing that a direct debit had been set up 
to make payments to Mr A’s Your Plan account. That evidence is entirely inconsistent with 
its case.
I think that the preponderance of the evidence leans very heavily towards proving that Mr A 
did indeed have a Your Plan account. In particular, the existence of an executed running 
account credit agreement seems to me to be conclusive evidence that Mr A did have a credit 
facility with Creation, whatever else the screenshot seems to say about that. (Presumably he 
still has the account today.) If he is not supposed to have a Your Plan account because he 
did not meet Creation’s lending criteria, then that means that his account was opened in 
error, but it does not mean that he does not in fact have one at all. It might mean that 
Creation’s systems did not pick up on the fact that he did not qualify for a line of credit until 
he tried to make a purchase with it, and this may be why his attempted purchase of a laptop 
was declined.
Whatever the reason for that – and we may never get to the bottom of it – it must have been 
quite galling for Mr A to be told that he had a credit facility with a £5,000 credit limit, and then 
to immediately be declined for a BNPL purchase of a £1,700 laptop, with no more 
explanation than that he had not met Creation’s lending criteria when only a moment ago he 
had (or at least he had appeared to). So I propose to award him £100 for that.
(The position would have been different if Creation had told Mr A at the outset that he 
couldn’t have a Your Plan account. If that had happened, then telling him that he didn’t meet 
Creation’s criteria would have been as much of an explanation as he was entitled to.)
A hard credit search was always going to appear on Mr A’s credit file in connection with his 
application for a Your Plan account, whatever the outcome. So I won’t require that to be 
removed. And as I've said, I have been told that the second credit search when he tried to 
buy the laptop will not appear on his credit file and will not affect him in any way. That seems 
plausible to me and so I will accept it is true, and so I will not make any order about that. But 
I may well change my mind if Mr A provides his credit file and it shows two searches by 
Creation on the same day.
So I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and to order Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to pay Mr A £100.
Responses to my provisional decision
Creation accepted my provisional decision. Mr A did not. He asked if Creation have different 
lending criteria for Your Plan and BNPL applications; he said if they do, then he had been 
induced to apply for a Your Plan account under false pretences; if not, then he should have 
been approved for his BNPL purchase. In either case, he argued that the hard search should 
be removed from his credit file. He also asked for £250 compensation and a letter of 
apology.
Mr A also provided some screenshots of parts of his credit file, showing that Creation had 
carried out one hard search and two soft searches (the latter relating to a credit quotation 
and an identity check). Another screenshot showed that he used to have a £5,000 credit limit 
with Creation, from 1 December 2022 until he closed that account three weeks later.
My findings
That last screenshot reinforces my opinion that Mr A did have an account with Creation, but 
that is no longer in dispute. The other screenshots confirm that there was only one hard 
search by Creation. So there is no reason for me to change the findings of fact I made in my 
provisional decision, and I confirm them here.
For the same reasons I gave earlier, I am not going to enquire about Creation’s lending 
criteria. But I don’t think Mr A is really asking me to do that; his point is that in either of two 
alternative cases, the hard search should be removed. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think there is a third scenario: that the Your Plan account was opened 
in error, and this was discovered when his BNPL purchase was declined (under the same 
lending criteria). So I am not persuaded that the account was misrepresented to Mr A before 
he applied for it, and I remain of the view that the hard search belongs on his credit file.
I still think that £100 is in line with what our service would typically award for an error of this 
kind. I have considered whether to require Creation to write a letter of apology, but I think 
that compulsory apologies can come across as insincere, and so I will leave it to Creation to 
decide whether it wishes to do that voluntarily.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Mr A £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4218833
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss B has complained Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) is holding her liable 
for a credit agreement she doesn’t recognise. 
What happened
Miss B is unhappy Creation is holding her liable for a credit agreement. Miss B 
acknowledges she had a credit agreement she took out with Creation to pay for goods from 
a supplier I’ll call ‘C’ in 2016/2017. This agreement was settled in 2021. I’ll call this 
‘agreement 1’. The agreement Miss B says she doesn’t recognise was taken out in April 
2017 and it was also used to buy goods from C. I’ll call this ‘agreement 2’. Both agreements 
were regulated running account credit agreements. Creation says Miss B used agreement 2 
to buy a laptop for around £800. And the total amount payable was around £1,000. 
Miss B says she was contacted in 2021 about agreement 2 by a third-party debt recovery 
company. Miss B queried the debt and said if the product was something she recognised 
she be happy to pay for it but not the interest for all the years Creation hadn’t contacted her 
about it. Creation says letters would have been sent to Miss B about the debt. It also 
supplied the credit agreements for agreements 1 and 2 which both have Miss B’s name and 
address recorded, and it said there’s no reason they wouldn’t have been delivered to her. 
Creation explains a £100 repayment was made towards agreement 2 not long after it was 
opened, indicating Miss B was aware of the debt. It says she would have had two direct 
debits set up for agreement 1 and 2. Creation says it spoke to Miss B about non-payment of 
the debt and a payment arrangement was put in place for £10 monthly, but this wasn’t kept 
to. Creation says the debt was passed to a third-party collection company, but it was 
returned to Creation after it received letters about a medical issue. Creation says it 
requested a financial statement from Miss B, but nothing was received. 
Creation says Miss B spoke to it in November 2021 to say she thought she’d paid her 
account off in full. She complained to Creation, but it didn’t uphold her complaint. It also 
looks like Miss B was unhappy she wasn’t passed through to a manager when querying the 
debt. Creation said it thought Miss B ought to have been aware of the debt and that it was 
valid. 
Miss B brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman to consider. When sending its file 
to our service Creation said it noticed an insolvency hold was placed on the account in 
November 2021 and taken off in October 2022. It said it did this in error and that the hold 
would have stopped correspondence being sent. It offered £200 compensation for this. Due 
to the time that’s passed, Creation wasn’t able to supply copies of all the documentation it 
referred to. 
One of our investigators looked into things and noted Creation had explained most of the 
details supplied for agreement 2 were the same for agreement 1. This included Miss B’s 
name, address, date of birth, telephone number and direct debit details. The only information 
that was different was an email address, but Miss B confirmed both emails were hers – 
although she says one was an old email address she thought might have been 
compromised. Creation also said its records indicate a driving licence was supplied during 
the application for agreement 2 – although it wasn’t able to supply a copy of it. 
Our investigator said she hadn’t seen enough to say Creation was wrong to open the 
account or that it was opened fraudulently. She noted Miss B said she had fraudulent activity 
on another account, but no further evidence was presented. Our investigator thought the 
£200 compensation for incorrectly putting on a hold on the account was fair. She made no 
further recommendations. 
Miss B didn’t agree with the assessment. She says she referred the matter to trading 
standards, the police, and Action Fraud. Miss B gave the details of this to Creation. And she 
asked if the Financial Ombudsman could wait on the outcome of that. 
As things couldn’t be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation is seeking money under a regulated credit agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. Miss B has focussed on whether 
the debt is valid, so I’ve concentrated on this primarily when deciding the complaint. 
I appreciate Miss B would like us to wait for the outcome of her referral to Action Fraud, but 
I’m required to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I have no idea how 
long that investigation will take to conclude. So I’m going to issue a decision based on the 
evidence we have available and which Creation has had the chance to respond to in its final 
response. If Miss B is unhappy about something new Creation does in the future, it may be a 
complaint we can consider for her. But I’ll go on to consider what has already happened.  
Due to the time that’s passed Creation hasn’t been able to supply everything we’ve asked 
for. So I’ve based my decision on what we have. 
Miss B says she doesn’t recognise the agreement, and that she doesn’t have the laptop 
purchased with agreement 2. So there are a few possibilities for what might’ve happened 
that I’ve considered. 
1.
Someone else took out agreement 2 without Miss B’s authority. 
2.
Miss B gave someone some sort of authority to take out agreement 2 on her behalf. 
3.
Miss B bought the goods using agreement 2. 
I’ve first thought about point 1 above. It’s of course possible that Creation or indeed C set up 
the agreement for the laptop without Miss B’s permission. After all, most of the application 
details were exactly the same. So they could have simply been transferred over. But I’m 
mindful a different email address was used in the application. Miss B has confirmed this is 
her email address. I find it unlikely Creation or C would have known this different email 
address. Moreover, if a fraud or error had taken place, I don’t think any payments would 
have been made towards the agreement by Creation or C. So, on balance, I find don’t find it 
likely Creation or C opened the agreement without Miss B’s knowledge or authority.  
Miss B has mentioned it might’ve been an ex-partner that took out the agreement without her 
knowledge or permission. I’m conscious that payments were made towards the agreement, 
albeit not everything required. It’s unlikely a fraudster would have paid anything towards the 
agreement, but I accept, in theory, her ex-partner may have made payment to conceal the 
fraud from Miss B. But I simply don’t have enough supporting evidence of this, so it’s difficult 
for me to conclude that’s the most likely thing to have happened. 
Moreover, while I don’t have evidence of the letters that were sent to Miss B shortly after 
agreement 2 was opened, on balance, I think Creation did send correspondence to her. So 
it’s not clear why she didn’t notice agreement 2 had been set up and contact Creation to say 
she didn’t recognise it. Creation’s notes indicate she spoke to it about the debt and so was 
aware of it. 
On balance, I don’t think the evidence, from what I’ve been supplied, points to the 
agreement being taken out by Miss B’s ex-partner without her permission. However, I do 
note Miss B has said she’s taken the complaint to the police and Action Fraud. So if this 
develops and more evidence comes to light, or her ex-partner is charged, for example, I’d 
expect Creation to take this evidence on board when deciding if something needs to be done 
to put things right. 
I’ve thought about point 2 above. Neither party has suggested Miss B gave someone 
authority to open the account on her behalf, so I accept this is unlikely to be what happened. 
Turning to point 3, Miss B has said she doesn’t recognise the debt and doesn’t have the 
laptop. But I note she’s been clear she would pay for the debt if it could be shown she took 
out agreement 2. So perhaps she did take it out, but simply doesn’t recall doing so. It was 
from quite a long time ago after all. Based on all the application details being hers; payments 
being made towards the debt; along with the conversations Creation say take place, on 
balance, I think Creation isn’t acting unfairly by deciding that the most likely thing to have 
happened is that Miss B took out the agreement. Therefore, I don’t find I have the grounds to 
direct Creation to stop pursuing Miss B for the debt. 
Finally, I’ve also thought about Creation’s response to incorrectly putting the agreement on 
hold. Technically, a lot of this event happened after the final response letter. But I think it 
makes sense to deal with it under this complaint. I don’t think the hold caused Miss B 
significant detriment because she wasn’t being contacted about the debt, and no interest 
was applied during that period. I think Creation’s offer of £200 compensation for the mistake 
seems broadly fair in all the circumstances. I’m not going to direct it to do more.
 
My final decision
Creation Consumer Finance Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that, to the extent it’s not already done so, Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited should pay Miss B £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4222621
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs E complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has treated her unfairly in 
relation to a purchase she made using finance provided by it.
What happened
Mrs E purchased brand-new goods online from a third party retailer I will refer to as “C”. Mrs 
E used finance provided by Creation to pay for the goods.
Once Mrs E received the goods she found that the goods were not working as they should. 
Therefore Mrs E called the manufacturer of the goods. She spent 45 minutes on the phone 
with the manufacturer trying to sort out the problem with the goods. Eventually, the 
manufacturer checked the details of the goods and told her not only were the goods second-
hand they were also out of warranty. Shocked Mrs E complained to C.
C accepted that the goods had been sold to Mrs E as brand-new it also appeared to accept 
that the goods were second-hand, so it agreed to refund the full amount Mrs E paid, (as far 
as I am aware Mrs E has already received this refund).
However, Mrs E would have preferred a like-for-like replacement, but C could not provide 
this (the goods were out of stock on its site, at that point). C did however offer to cover the 
difference in price between the original goods and any replacement, provided the 
replacement cost no more than a certain amount, but this was not acceptable to Mrs E. 
Mrs E ended up buying a replacement for the goods (the replacement was a higher spec 
than the goods). The replacement goods cost around £70 more than the original goods. As a 
result, Mrs E wanted C to compensate her for the difference in price. She also wanted C to 
pay her £50 for distress and inconvenience. Mrs E’s reasoning was that she would not have 
had to spend £70 extra if C provided the goods it was supposed to have done. So she’d 
made a loss which C ought to be responsible for. Moreover, Mrs E spent 45 fruitless minutes 
on the phone with the manufacturer of the goods. This call had only been necessary 
because of C’s mistakes. And she’d been let down by C who she’d trusted. All of which 
caused her upset which she ought to be compensated for. C declined Mrs E’s request. 
Dissatisfied with the response from C, Mrs E turned to Creation to put things right. In coming 
to Creation Mrs E relied on the rights she believes she has against Creation because of the 
type of credit she used to make the purchase. Specifically, Mrs E relied on Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“Section 75”). The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mrs E 
has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier of the goods 
(here that is C) she can also bring a like claim against Creation provided certain conditions 
are met.
Creation took a look at Mrs E’s complaint. It agreed that the contract between Mrs E and C 
had been both misrepresented and breached. But it considered that since C refunded the 
money Mrs E paid for the goods C had put things right already. However, even though it did 
not think there was anything further it needed to do Creation offered but apparently did not 
pay Mrs E £30 as a goodwill gesture. It explained that it thought this amount was appropriate 
as, at first, it wasn’t aware that C had sold Mrs E second-hand items and it only became 
aware when she told it about this. 
Mrs E did not agree that Creation’s goodwill gesture went far enough and rejected it, and 
she came to our service.
Once Mrs E’s complaint was with us Mrs E reiterated that she considered she was £70 out 
of pocket because the contract was misrepresented and breached. Mrs E also complained 
that her credit rating had been negatively impacted due to having the account with Creation 
on her credit file. She also complained about having to take out new finance with a third 
party to buy the replacement goods which she considered had caused her to experience a 
further loss.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Creation had to do more than it had already offered to do.
Creation accepted our investigator’s recommendation Mrs E did not. Mrs E repeated her 
previous stance and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold Mrs E’s complaint in part, 
but I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision and I’ve set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision.
“What I’ve decided and why
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored 
it. Rather, I’m satisfied I don’t need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
New matters
Mrs E has now also raised a question about the negative impact on her credit rating due to 
the agreement with Creation showing on her credit file. She has also raised the issue of the 
loss she says she made because she had to take out new credit to buy the replacement 
goods. These appear to be a new matters that have not been considered by Creation in its 
final response to Mrs E nor investigated as part of this complaint. Under the rules I must 
follow all this would have needed to have happened already in order for me to look at these 
issues too. It follows that I am unable to look at these new matters in this decision.
What I can look at in this decision
Mrs E and Creation agree that C misrepresented and breached its contract (as the goods 
were not brand-new and were not of satisfactory quality). Further, they both agree that Mrs E 
can ask Creation to put things right in these circumstances when the effect of Section 75 and 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) are taken into account. 
Where they disagree is about whether Mrs E has experienced a loss in relation to the extra 
money she paid for the replacement goods. And whether Creation is responsible for this. 
Also they disagree about whether an award for distress and inconvenience is merited. I say 
this because Mrs E says Creation ought to make a payment to her for distress and 
inconvenience because of what has gone wrong that it is responsible for. Whereas, Creation 
has offered (but not yet paid) £30, as a gesture of goodwill. A gesture of goodwill means 
Creation does not think it is at fault but makes an offer anyway. So in other words Creation is 
saying Mrs E isn’t entitled to a payment for distress and inconvenience per se.  I’ll look at 
both issues in turn
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators’ rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant law 
and regulations include but are not limited to Section 75 and the CRA 2015.
Has Mrs E made a loss that Creation ought to be responsible for?
I think this is a simple issue. Mrs E did not end up paying more for the replacement goods 
because of what C did wrong. Rather, she ended up in this situation because other retailers 
happened to be selling the goods at a higher price than C or other retailers did not have the 
goods in stock. C was responsible for selling her the goods it promised to sell her. And if it 
could not do this then it was fair and reasonable for it or by extension Creation, to refund the 
purchase price, which is what has happened. There is nothing in law to say Creation has to 
compensate Mrs E because other retailers chose to sell the goods at a higher price or did 
not have the goods available when she wanted to buy them. Neither is it fair or reasonable to 
say Creation needs to do this. It follows I don’t uphold this part of Mrs E’s complaint. 
Distress and inconvenience
Mrs E bought brand-new goods from a well-known retailer she was entitled to expect she’d 
get those goods, but she didn’t. Rather, the goods she received were both misrepresented 
and not of satisfactory quality, so there was a breach of contract. As a result Mrs E spent 45, 
no doubt frustrating minutes, on the phone, trying to get the goods to work. Only to find that 
C, an established and well-known retailer had misled her and breached their contract.  I can 
well imagine that came as an unwelcome surprise.
Moreover, Mrs E was unable to use the goods immediately as she clearly intended. Looking 
at the information I have on the file what jumps off the page is that her sense of anticipation 
about the goods turned rapidly to disappointment.
I don’t doubt that all of this caused Mrs E distress and inconvenience. I think it is fair and 
reasonable that Creation ought to be responsible for this. 
Creation as a goodwill gesture has offered Mrs E £30. It explains the amount of the goodwill 
gesture and the fact that it is a goodwill gesture not an admission of fault, on the basis that it 
didn’t know that C had sold second-hand goods to Mrs E. That’s irrelevant. I say this 
because Creation is responsible for the misrepresentation and the breach of contract, its 
lack of knowledge about the wrongdoing is not the point. Therefore it is also responsible for 
the distress and inconvenience that were caused by the misrepresentation and breach of 
contract.
In all the circumstances, I don’t agree that £30 takes account of the impact on Mrs E I think 
£150 is a more appropriate award in the circumstances.
Credit file
Mrs E has shown that the account with Creation is still showing on her credit file. Creation 
indicated that the account was now closed. I note that the account only seems to have had 
this one transaction on it and that Mrs E doesn’t want the account anymore. In the 
circumstances therefore, it is fair and reasonable that Creation must ask the credit reference 
agencies to remove any information it has asked them to register about the credit agreement 
on Mrs E’s credit file.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Pay Mrs E £150 for distress and inconvenience.

Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked them to 
register about the credit agreement on Mrs E’s credit file.
It must pay the £150 within 28 days of the date on which Mrs E accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £150 from the date of the final decision 
until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs E can reclaim the tax if she is entitled to 
do so.”
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation. “
As far as I am aware only Mrs E responded to my provisional decision. Mrs E responded to 
say she accepted my provisional decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs E for her response to my provisional decision. Ideally I would have received a 
response from Creation too. However, I think it has been given a fair opportunity to respond 
should it have wished to. 
I’ve reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional decision. I have received no new 
information or reasoning in response to my provisional decision. It follows in this final 
decision I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Pay Mrs E £150 for distress and inconvenience.

Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information it has asked them to 
register about the credit agreement on Mrs E’s credit file.
It must pay the £150 within 28 days of the date on which Mrs E accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £150 from the date of the final decision 
until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from that interest, it must, if it is able 
to send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs E can reclaim the tax if she 
is entitled to do so.
Mrs E should refer back to Creation if she is unsure of the approach it has taken and both 
parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax 
treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4222624
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs Q has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) 
administered a credit agreement she has with it. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances, so I’m not going to go over everything again in 
detail. But in summary, Mrs Q says she purchased a television in 2020 from a supplier using 
a credit agreement with Creation. I understand it had a buy now pay later option where if the 
balance was cleared within a certain time no interest would be charged. Mrs Q says some 
mistakes were made around the interest application, but she paid off the agreement. She 
says she spoke to Creation and it reassured her the account was cleared. It made a refund 
of the interest that wasn’t applied fairly with £30 compensation to resolve things in 2020. 
Mrs Q says she was surprised to receive contact about the debt in 2022. She complained to 
Creation again and was told the balance was still incorrectly showing. Mrs Q says this 
caused issues with her credit file. And she tells us she’s suffered a loss because when 
taking out a new loan in 2021 she was given a worse rate than she should’ve been eligible 
for because of the incorrect adverse data recorded by Creation. 
To resolve the complaint Mrs Q requests Creation reimburse her the extra interest she’s 
paying along with her credit file being corrected. 
Creation sent a final response to the complaint setting out that when it generated the refund 
in 2020 it failed to close the account. As a result, the account expected monthly instalments 
to be made which was incorrect. Creation reassured Mrs Q that nothing was owed. It said 
this went unnoticed until Mrs Q contacted it in 2022. Creation said it corrected the account, 
and also arranged to have any negative markers removed from Mrs Q’s credit file. 
Mrs Q decided to bring her complaint to our service to consider. Our investigator said it 
wasn’t in dispute Creation had made a mistake. She recommended Creation pay Mrs Q 
£200 for the inconvenience caused. Our investigator also said that if Mrs Q could provide 
evidence she was charged a higher interest on a loan as a result of Creation’s mistake it 
should look to put this right too. And she also recommended Creation look into another 
concern Mrs Q raised about not being able to use her credit facility. 
Mrs Q accepted the investigator’s assessment, but Creation didn’t respond. I arranged for 
our investigator to ask Mrs Q for evidence that she was paying more towards a loan as a 
direct result of something Creation did wrong. And we explained that in the absence of 
sufficient evidence it would be unlikely I’d be able to direct Creation to take any action for 
that part of her complaint. Mrs Q explained that her rate on her original loan in March 2018 
was 3.4% and in September 2021 a new loan was 5.9%. She said the lender told her she 
couldn’t get the lower rate because of adverse information on her credit file. 
I also arranged for both parties to be asked to send in a copy of the credit agreement, but 
Creation didn’t respond, and Mrs Q couldn’t find a copy of it. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s disappointing Creation hasn’t responded to our recent requests. I would have liked a 
copy of the credit agreement at least so that I could check everything was in order. It’s an 
important document for me to be able to determine our jurisdiction for the complaint. But in 
the absence of a response, I’ve thought about whether there are any issues in relation to our 
powers to look into the complaint. 
It’s not in dispute that Creation is the respondent, and we can consider financial services 
complaints against Creation. It’s also not in dispute Mrs Q entered into a credit agreement 
with Creation. From what I know, the agreement isn’t an exempt one, so I think we have the 
power to consider complaints relating to these sorts of credit agreements. I think Mrs Q is an 
eligible complainant (and I’ve not been shown there are any other parties to the agreement). 
Mrs Q brought her 2022 complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in time. And there are no 
territorial issues that could impact our jurisdiction either. I’m therefore satisfied I can decide 
this particular case without a copy of the credit agreement. I’m required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality, and I don’t think it would be fair to make 
Mrs Q wait longer for an answer. 
I agree Mrs Q has been put to some inconvenience. She must have been worried when she 
found out the credit agreement hadn’t been settled properly. She says she was unable to get 
through to Creation to talk about the problem. And she must have been frustrated Creation 
hadn’t resolved things back in 2020. Our investigator recommended Creation pay Mrs Q 
£200 compensation. In all the circumstances and taking into account how long it’s taken to 
resolve things, I find this to be broadly fair. 
Moreover, Mrs Q has said she’s lost out financially because she’s been paying a higher rate 
on a loan than she should have done. I’m sorry to hear this. But like we explained to Mrs Q, 
without evidence to show that Mrs Q has lost out as a direct result of something Creation 
has done, I don’t find I have the grounds to direct Creation to reimburse Mrs Q for what she 
says she’s lost out. I simply don’t have enough evidence to demonstrate Mrs Q is paying 
more for something as a result of a mistake by Creation. I’m therefore not going to make a 
direction for that. 
Finally, I note Mrs Q said she had an issue using her Creation credit account. I can’t see this 
has been something considered by Creation under her complaint. So, for the avoidance of 
doubt, I’m not going to comment on it in this final decision. If Mrs Q has any issues going 
forward with regards to using her account, she can take it up with Creation in the first 
instance. If she’s unhappy with Creation’s response it may be something our service is able 
to consider for her. 
To resolve matters for the complaint I am able to consider, Creation should pay Mrs Q £200 
compensation. And while Creation has said it’s corrected Mrs Q’s credit file, it should make 
sure that’s been carried out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to:

Pay Mrs Q £200 compensation*.

Remove adverse information about the credit agreement from Mrs Q’s credit file to 
the extent it agreed to in its 2022 final response letter. 
*Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs Q accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4223398
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Miss W has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) 
responded to claims she’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an 
alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the “CCA”). 
Miss W has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Miss W throughout.  
What happened 
In June 2013 Miss W entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£8,200 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “P”. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £12,928.80 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £107.74. There was a £135 arrangement fee and an interest charge 
of £4,593.80.  
In February 2022 Miss W sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining she thought the system 
was mis-sold.  
She said P told her she’d effectively be paid for the electricity the system generated through 
the government’s Feed in Tariff (FIT) payments and that she’d have reduced energy bills. 
She said P told her she’d receive a guaranteed income for 20 years; she’d earn up to 10% 
annually tax-free; her property value would increase; and that the panels were maintenance 
free with at least a 25-year life expectancy. She said P sold the system as being self-funding 
within the loan term. She said the system was misrepresented and believed the statements 
and several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair relationship between 
herself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in May 2022 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Miss W decided to refer her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in July 2022.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought P had likely told Miss W the system 
would be self-funding. He didn’t think the system was self-funding over the course of the 
loan term, and so he thought P had misrepresented it. He thought a court would likely find 
the relationship between Miss W and Creation was unfair and that she’d suffered a loss 
through entering into the agreement. He thought Creation should recalculate the loan based 
on known and assumed savings and income over the course of the loan so that she pays no 
more than that, and she keeps the system.  
Miss W agreed, but I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Miss W. Here, based on what I’ve seen, 
Miss W settled the agreement in October 2019. Given Miss W raised her claim and referred 
her complaint in 2022, the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by P can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming P to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by P for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss W.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Miss W says she was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Miss W says she was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that 
I’ve been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Miss W to be able to understand what was required to be 
repaid towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the 
system. 
Miss W said she showed an interest in solar panels because they would save money on 
electricity. She said P showed her calculations on a computer during the sales meeting but 
didn’t leave her with any paperwork. She said P showed her she’d save a substantial 
 
 
amount of money on her electricity bills and that she was pressured to make the purchase 
straight away because the FIT payments were due to change. Miss W explained P sold the 
system as being self-funding within the loan term and that she’d generate enough of a 
benefit for the loan payments to be covered. Miss W said she didn’t complain sooner 
because she didn’t know she could. She said she remembered speaking to P but it told her 
the issue was with the energy provider.  
I’ve not seen Miss W was left or given documentation that would have enabled her to easily 
compare the overall costs to the benefits of having the system installed.  
I’ve also looked at a copy of P’s website from May 2013 because Miss W says the financial 
benefits were discussed. On the main page it states: 
‘Embrace the benefits of solar power and renewable energy saving systems. 
✓ Tax free 
✓ High yield 
✓ No risk 
✓ Inflation proof 
✓ Non depreciating asset’ 
Further down the page there is a section titled ‘PV Solar Systems’, where the following is 
stated: 
‘The most common sustainable energy product on the market at the moment is the solar PV 
systems. These create electricity for your home during daylight hours free of charge and give 
you a tax-free income guaranteed by the government feed in tariff. Yes you get paid for 
generating energy and it is TAX FREE!’ 
And at the bottom of the page there is a section titled ‘Finance’, which includes: 
‘We have calculated a Pay As You Go plan to suit each and every client, so that all the 
savings and tariffs pay for your new products’ 
I think it follows that if the website emphasises the benefits of a solar panel system, and how 
they would pay for the products being offered by P it’s likely this would have been a central 
part of P’s conversation when selling the product. I think the website also supports Miss W’s 
testimony that P’s representative told her the system would pay for itself.  
So, I find what Miss W said believable. I think P’s website supports her testimony that the 
potential benefits were discussed. I’m of the opinion that they would be a key reason to 
purchase the system and her savings on electrical bills and income from the FIT scheme 
would have been a central part of the conversation.  
I think Miss W would have looked to P’s representative to help her understand how much the 
panels would cost, what they would bring in and how much she would benefit from the 
system. And as I’ve said I think the website supports Miss W’s testimony that she was told 
by P’s representative the system would be self-funding. 
I think it’s also important to note the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (‘RECC’) against P. My understanding is that the RECC oversees the Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code and makes sure its members comply with it. 
The RECC investigated P’s conduct and informed P of its concerns in 2014. Significantly 
RECC had concerns about P using false or misleading information and that pressured sales 
were taking place. 
 
 
 
The RECC Panel heard the case and decided the following were proved: 
• 
allegations consumers had been given misleading information about payment and 
payback 
• 
allegations consumers were not given certain technical information before signing the 
contract 
So, the Panel decided P breached sections of the code which required members not to 
provide false or misleading information to consumers, and which concerned members 
providing clear information so consumers could make an informed decision. Given RECC’s 
concern about P’s culture and conduct, it made the decision to terminate P’s membership of 
RECC. 
 
Whilst I accept that the above related to findings on different cases the RECC was looking 
at, the findings suggest that there were conduct concerns in the same areas that Miss W has 
complained about, at a similar time she was sold the system. 
Creation has also told this service that following the RECC report it terminated its 
relationship with P. This is also set out in P’s liquidation report produced in June 2016. The 
report states that mis-selling issues by P were brought up by Creation, which led to it 
terminating the contract with P and also withholding funds as it expected claims from 
consumers. I think Creation’s actions strongly suggest it had serious concerns about the way 
P was selling solar panels. 
 
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information strongly supports Miss W’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Miss W said happened. Yet Miss W left 
the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of £107.74, 
payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden she took on I find Miss W’s account of what 
she was told by P, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and 
I can’t see why she would have seen this purchase appealing had she not been given the 
reassurances she’s said she received from P.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of nearly £1,300 per year. However, importantly here I don’t think the 
system would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. I think 
the statements that were likely made by P were not true. I think P’s representative must 
reasonably have been aware that Miss W’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think P’s representative would have known that Miss W’s system 
would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Miss W. 
Considering Miss W’s account about what she was told, P’s website, RECC’s findings, 
Creation’s actions and that it hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely P gave Miss W a 
false and misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider P’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Miss W was expected to receive by agreeing 
to the installation of the system. I consider that P’s assurances in this regard likely amounted 
to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Miss W went into the transaction. Either way, I think P’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Miss W’s 
point of view. 
 
 
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for P’s negotiations with Miss W in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, 
I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between 
Miss W and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has had 
to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and the 
cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan she 
would otherwise have not taken out. 
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Miss W and Creation’s relationship arising out of P’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. Creation should repay 
Miss W a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have expected as a 
result of P’s assurances. That is, that Miss W’s loan repayments should amount to no more 
than the financial benefits she received for the duration of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
savings and income Miss W received or ought to have received from the system over the 10-
year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to 
consider the benefit Miss W received, or ought to have received, by way of FIT payments as 
well as through energy savings. Miss W will need to supply up to date details of all FIT 
benefits received, electricity bills, current meter readings and the MCS certificate to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I note Miss W also mentioned claiming damages through section 75 (“s.75”). Given 
my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a fair 
outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis of 
Miss W’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Miss W’s complaint. To 
put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:  
• 
Calculate the total payments Miss W has made towards the solar panel system up 
until the date of settlement – A  
• 
Use Miss W’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits she received, or ought 
to have received, from the start date of the loan, up until the end of the original loan 
term – B  
• 
Use B to recalculate what Miss W should have paid each month towards the loan 
over that period and calculate the difference, between what she actually paid (A), and 
what she should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement* – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Miss W 
* If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much it’s taken off. It 
should also give Miss W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4228586
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) haven’t managed his account 
with them correctly after he fell into arrears. 
What happened
Mr M borrowed from Creation in 2017. The account fell into arrears and from August 2018 
was administered as part of a Debt Management Plan through a debt charity. In early 2019 
Creation sold the debt to a third party. Mr M’s unhappy as he thinks the debt should’ve been 
defaulted by Creation before it was sold on. He thinks as a result of this there’s been a more 
detrimental and longer lasting impact on his credit file than had the account been defaulted 
back in late 2018/early 2019. 
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She thought Creation had made a number of 
things clear to Mr M. Namely he wasn’t making payments in line with the loan agreement, 
that the account was in arrears and that they wouldn’t be defaulting as it had agreed a 
temporary repayment plan for 12 months. She thought Creation had made it clear to Mr M 
the account could still default as per the original agreement. She also found it was 
reasonable for Creation to sell the debt without defaulting the account first as there was a 
repayment plan in place and Mr M had kept up with the repayments. So, she didn’t uphold 
Mr M’s complaint. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman’s decision. He told us he couldn’t see any reference at all in 
the correspondence from August 2018 - at the time the payment arrangement was agreed 
by Creation - setting out clearly that the result of this (arrangement) would be that the 
account would not be defaulted. Mr M thought Creation saying that not keeping up with a 
repayment plan may lead to the account being managed in line with standard debt collection 
procedures, was completely ambiguous as there was no reference (clear or otherwise) in the 
correspondence to the word "default", let alone details of what the standard debt collection 
procedure entailed.
He thought it was wrong to say Creation made it clear that the account would not be 
defaulted. He couldn’t see reference to this in any correspondence he held. And he told us 
both the arrears notice from November 2018 - after the event - and the information sheet 
didn’t state that a repayment plan would prevent the account from being defaulted.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M entered a contract with Creation to borrow and has had the benefit of the money it lent 
him. He found himself unable to meet repayments and, with advice and assistance from a 
debt management charity reached an arrangement with Creation, namely a DMP. 
Mr M’s helpfully referred me to guidance published by the Information Commissioner’s Office 
ICO “Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference 
Agencies”. He thinks the failure to default his account is contrary to Principle 4 of this 
guidance. But I disagree. 
It states “If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of 
an arrangement, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down. 
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the 
time you are 6 months in”. I think this covers what might happen but it’s not mandatory. And I 
don’t think it amounts to an “expectation” as Mr M says. Particularly when read alongside the 
later part of Principle 4 which sets out several circumstances where a default should not be 
filed. One of those is where “If jointly with the lender an agreement is reached for an 
arrangement and you keep to the terms of that arrangement”. That seems to me to have 
been the case here with the DMP. Although I haven’t seen copies of the arrangement 
reached at the time there doesn’t seem to me to be any dispute between the parties that this 
was in place and that the payments were being met by Mr M. So, for these reasons it doesn’t 
seem to me Creations actions in reporting the DMP until they sold the debt - at which point 
the obligations on reporting stop - are contrary to this guidance.
Mr M’s unhappy as he can’t see it stated anywhere in the 2018 paperwork with Creation that 
the result of the DMP was that the account would not be defaulted. I appreciate Mr M is 
unhappy with this but I don’t think it’s reasonable for him to expect to be told that. It’s not the 
sort of information I’d expect lender to give as its impossible to say whether an account will 
default or not. A lender can’t know the end result when an arrangement is made. Whilst both 
parties share the hope the plan will be kept to, there’s always the possibility the arrangement 
might fail and the account may default. So, although I understand that Mr M’s unhappy, I 
don’t think Creation did anything wrong here.
The sale of Mr M’s debt to a third party when it’s in a DMP and the payments are being met 
is a commercial decision for the lender and ordinarily not something we would get involved 
with. Given my findings, it wouldn’t be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4243639
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) have incorrectly reported one 
of her accounts as defaulted to credit reference agencies. She’s also said Creation 
irresponsibly provided her with three credit accounts. 
Mrs B is represented on her complaint, but for ease I’ve referred to all submissions as 
though they are her own.
What happened
Mrs B was provided with the following credit facilities by Creation:
Account type
Date of lending
Value of 
lending
(approx.)
Term 
(months)
Monthly 
repayment 
(approx.)
Running credit facility
21 December 2016
£2,000 limit
N/A
Variable
Fixed term loan (loan one)
7 April 2017
£1,407
36
£39
Fixed term loan (loan two)
21 April 2017
£2,016
36
£56
In September 2022 Mrs B complained to Creation. She said she wasn’t made aware that 
loan one would be – or had been – defaulted in 2019, until she found this out in August 
2022. She said the default is incorrect and should be removed from her credit file.
Mrs B also said Creation hadn’t completed reasonable and proportionate checks before 
providing her with each of these three credit facilities; and that had it done so it would have 
identified these facilities were unaffordable for her as she was unemployed and had an 
income made up solely of benefits. She says for this reason Creation irresponsibly provided 
her with these credit facilities.
Creation issued its final response in October 2022. It said loan one was being correctly 
reported as having been defaulted in 2019 as it was a true reflection of the account status. It 
also said it’s checks were reasonable, and that it went on to make fair lending decisions 
when providing each line of credit. Mrs B didn’t accept Creation’s outcome and brought her 
complaint to our service for consideration. 
Our investigator reviewed Mrs B’s complaint and upheld it in part. He said the evidence 
suggested Creation were acting fairly by reporting loan one as defaulted; but he felt it should 
have defaulted the loan earlier. So, he recommended Creation backdate the default to 2018. 
In relation to Mrs B’s unaffordable lending complaint, he said Creation’s checks at each 
lending event weren’t reasonable and proportionate; but, based on the evidence he now had 
and what Creation would likely have obtained at the time, he concluded Creation would 
reasonably have still reached the same decisions to lend. 
Creation accepted our investigator’s outcome; Mrs B didn’t. She replied with a number of 
points for our investigator to consider. These solely focused on the default aspect of the 
complaint rather than the lending decisions. Our investigator reviewed these additional 
points and discussed the details with Mrs B and her representative; and set out why he 
considered his outcome was still fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances. 
Mrs B asked for an ombudsman’s review, so the complaint’s been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’ve reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mrs B.
The default being reported to credit reference agencies against loan one
Mrs B says she had no knowledge of the default being applied to loan one in 2019; and that 
she received no correspondence from Creation notifying her that the account would be 
defaulted. Mrs B has questioned why would she maintain agreed payments to only two of 
the three accounts, resulting in one being defaulted. She’s said she believed the payments 
she was making to Creation covered all three of the accounts she had. 
I’ve carefully considered Mrs B’s testimony and the documentary evidence Creation has 
presented. I don’t doubt anything Mrs B has said, but my role here is to weigh up the 
evidence from both sides and reach a decision based on that evidence. Where there is 
missing of conflicting information I need to decide, on balance, what I consider more likely to 
have happened in the individual circumstances. 
Creation has provided us with screen shots from its internal systems. These screen shots 
show dates with letter codes being sent to Mrs B in relation to loan one. Although Creation 
hasn’t been able to provide us with the actual letters sent to Mrs B, it has provided us with 
the templates of the letters. 
On review of this information I consider, on balance, it more likely Creation did send notices 
of arrears and notices of intention to default letters to Mrs B; and by doing so it reasonably 
met its regulatory obligations by making Mrs B aware of the status of loan one and the 
actions that would be taken if the arrears weren’t cleared.
I appreciate Mrs B has said she didn’t receive these letters. She’s also asked why Creation 
wouldn’t have looked to correspond with her by another communication channel; and that in 
her experience systems can retrospectively be amended to manipulate data.
As our investigator set out, it was Creation’s regulatory obligation to send these notices, not 
to ensure they were received. By sending the notices it met the requirements placed on it. 
And I can’t find Creation responsible for any possible problems Mrs B had with receiving 
these letters, especially as I’ve seen no information to suggest Creation was aware Mrs B 
had any concerns with receiving post. 
There is no requirement on Creation to make Mrs B aware of the notice of arears or default 
by any means other than letter – and as I’ve found above, as there were no known concerns 
with Mrs B receiving post, I don’t find its actions here were unreasonable. I’ve also seen no 
evidence to suggest or cause me any reason to bring into question Creation’s timeline of 
events and when correspondence was sent to Mrs B. 
So, taking all the above into account I’m satisfied Creation reasonably made Mrs B aware of 
the status of loan one and the actions that would be taken, including defaulting the account, 
if it wasn’t brought back in line within the set out timeframe. I agree, however, that the 
account should have been defaulted earlier than it was. I say this because Creation issued 
Mrs B with notices of arrears letters as early as November 2017, as well as making her 
aware at this time that her direct debit instruction had been cancelled by her bank. And on 
4 June 2018 it sent a notice of default if the arrears weren’t cleared. 
Creation didn’t report the account as defaulted until December 2019. However, I consider it 
would have been reasonable for Creation to have looked to default loan one as early as 
4 July 2018, one month after the notice of default was sent to Mrs B and she’d been given 
reasonable time to bring the account back in line. I’ve noted that Creation stopped adding 
interest and charges to the account in May 2018, so although the default wasn’t added as 
early as I’ve found it should have been, it doesn’t appear Mrs B incurred any additional 
interest or charges as a result. 
So, I’m satisfied the account was fairly defaulted given its status, but that this default should 
reasonably have been registered on 4 July 2018.  
Unaffordable lending
In response to our investigator’s assessment Mrs B’s concerns have centred around the 
default – she made no reference to our investigator’s outcome on the unaffordable lending 
part of the complaint. In fact, having listened to the calls that followed our investigator’s view 
Mrs B has said she isn’t looking for financial recompense – but that the outcome she is 
seeking is for the default to be removed from her credit file. 
Although Mrs B’s main focus appears to be in relation to the default, for completeness I’ve 
considered the unaffordable lending of the three accounts approved by Creation. 
While I’ve not gone into the detail of each account within my decision, I would like to assure 
Mrs B and Creation that I have carefully considered all of the evidence that I have on file. 
We’ve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And our investigator set this out in his assessment, so both Mrs B and Creation are 
aware of this.
Creation says its checks at the point of the initial running credit facility included obtaining 
Mrs B’s declared household income as well as a review of her credit file. It says it conducted 
the same checks at the two subsequent loans. 
Having considered Creation’s arguments, I’m not persuaded its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate at the point of any of these three lending events.
I say this because, as our investigator has set out, Mrs B was provided with a relatively 
sizeable initial running credit facility limit. While the credit check Creation obtained appeared 
to cause it little to no concern; Creation was relying on Mrs B’s household income without 
obtaining details or understanding the household expenditure. 
Loans one and two were provided within four months of the running credit facility, and within 
weeks of each other. At the point of loan one Creation could see from its checks that Mrs B 
had relatively significantly increased her revolving debt on credit cards in comparison to her 
position four months prior, now standing at three times the previous level. I consider the 
frequency of obtaining additional credit in such a short period of time, together with not 
understanding Mrs B’s household expenditure, ought reasonably to have led Creation to 
complete more detailed checks to ensure it had a full understanding of her financial situation, 
before approving these credit accounts. 
As Creation didn’t complete reasonable and proportionate checks, I’ve gone on to consider 
what further checks would likely have shown. Mrs B has provided us with joint bank account 
statements covering September 2016 to April 2017. She’s also confirmed to our service that 
income and expenditure was pooled within the household. 
Creation could have looked to understand the household expenditure by any means it saw 
fit. But in the absence of any other contradictory information, I consider these statements 
allow me to obtain a reasonable understanding of the household financial circumstances 
around this time. 
On review of the statements and testimony provided I consider Creation made fair lending 
decisions at each of the three events. 
I say this because as our investigator found, the statements generally support the 
information Mrs B declared to Creation at each application. The statements show a 
reasonable level of disposable income left at the end of each month, at a level that would 
have been enough to cover the repayments to these lines of credit and leave a reasonable 
amount for other living costs or unexpected costs that could occur. 
So, I’m satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would have led Creation to conclude 
each line of credit was sustainably affordable for Mrs B; and I’m therefore satisfied it would 
reasonably have reached the same decisions to lend.
As I consider Creation made fair lending decisions when providing Mrs B with these lines of 
credit I’m not requiring it to take any action in relation to this part of Mrs B’s complaint.
Putting things right
As I’ve found above, I’m satisfied Creation Consumer Finance Ltd fairly defaulted loan one 
based on the status and management of the account. However, I consider it ought 
reasonably to have defaulted loan one as early as 4 July 2018, a month after it notified 
Mrs B it intended to default the account if the arrears weren’t cleared, and the account 
wasn’t brought up to date. 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd has already accepted this outcome and confirmed the 
update request has been sent to the credit reference agencies. So, it therefore follows I’m 
not recommending Creation Consumer Finance Ltd need to take any further action in 
resolution of this complaint.
My final decision
I’m upholding in part Mrs B’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd; but I’m not 
directing it to take any further action than it already has in resolution of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4248901
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs D complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s response to a claim she made to it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She’s assisted in bringing this complaint 
by her son, Mr D. For ease of reading I’ll refer to any actions or submissions by Mr or Mrs D 
as being from Mrs D.
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs D had some replacement doors and windows supplied and fitted by a 
company “W”. She paid for the work using a fixed sum loan provided by Creation. Shortly 
after the fitting, Mrs D identified a number of problems with the work W had carried out, most 
notably in relation to the installation of the front windows, which she felt was defective. She 
attempted to resolve the issue with W, who over the course of the following months visited 
her property to make adjustments and check the work had been carried out to an 
appropriate standard.
Unfortunately, Mrs D remained dissatisfied with the windows, which continued to be 
draughty and noisy when it was windy outside. She ended up getting a quote from an 
alternative fitter to replace the windows at a cost of £1,140, which she sought to claim from 
W. By July 2022 W considered that it had resolved the problems and wasn’t willing to cover 
the cost of the replacement windows. Mrs D turned to Creation, which has a potential liability 
for a breach of contract claim against W under the connected lender liability provisions of 
section 75.
Creation made enquiries of W to establish the actions it had taken to rectify the problems. 
After receiving W’s version of events, Creation declined to meet Mrs D’s claim, saying that W 
had advised it had carried out repairs to a suitable standard. Mrs D ended up replacing the 
windows with the alternative fitter in November 2022.
Mrs D was unhappy with Creation’s response to her claim and asked us to look into matters. 
Our investigator noted the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) and the 
number of times W had been out to attempt to rectify various issues. He felt this, along with 
the evidence Mrs D supplied, pointed to the windows failing to meet the threshold for 
satisfactory quality.
The investigator wasn’t satisfied that the evidence Creation provided demonstrated W had 
carried out an effective repair. He recommended that Creation adjust the loan balance by 
£1,140, that it pay Mrs D £250 compensation for the difficulties she’d experienced, and that it 
arrange for a different fitter to check the outstanding issue Mrs D had with the other window 
and door handles.
Creation has agreed to the investigator’s recommendation of £250 for Mrs D’s distress and 
inconvenience. It hasn’t agreed to his other recommendations, maintaining the position 
taken by W that the problems with the windows had been rectified by W in July 2022. It has 
cited W’s own inspection report in support of that position.
Our investigator wasn’t persuaded by Creation’s arguments. Creation said it would respond 
further when it had discussed the matter further with W. However, other than its agreement 
to the £250 payment mentioned, Creation has provided no further evidence and in the 
interests of resolving matters, the complaint has been passed to me for review and 
determination. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties accept that the transaction in question meets the requirements – both in financial 
terms and in the way the arrangements were structured – to enable Mrs D to bring a claim 
under section 75. For clarity, section 75 has the effect that, if Mrs D has a claim in 
misrepresentation or in breach of contract against W, she has a like claim (joint and several) 
against Creation. Here, her claim is one of breach of contract; that is, that the service W 
undertook to provide to her was not carried out with reasonable skill and care, as 
incorporated into the contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”).
Creation accept that Mrs D has such a claim. Indeed, given W’s undertaking of rectification 
work it would be difficult to reach any other conclusion than that the service relating to the 
original installation failed to meet the appropriate standard. With this in mind, the question is 
not whether there was a breach of contract, but whether the acknowledged breach was 
remedied by W’s subsequent rectification work.
Mrs D considered that it had not. She said the windows were still draughty and there was a 
whistling sound when it was windy. W provided its own inspection report, dated 14 July 
2022, signed off by its head of installations. W’s report concluded that it had rectified the 
problems that had been identified, and that there were no leaks or draughts on the date of its 
visit. It appears that Creation seeks to rely on W’s report in support of its position that it has 
no further liability to Mrs D.
I don’t consider it reasonable for Creation to place as much reliance as it has on W’s report. 
Aside from the rather basic position that a report compiled by W can’t properly be considered 
to be independent evidence, W’s letter of 22 July 2022 advised there was no wind on the 
day the inspection was carried out. I can’t therefore see how it provides Creation with 
sufficient evidence that the additional work resolved the problems caused by the original 
installation.
I’m conscious that it is now not possible to obtain an independent inspection that might have 
properly established whether the noise and draughts persisted after W completed its work. 
I’ve no reason to think Mrs D would have proceeded in November 2022 to replace the 
windows if the problems had been fixed. Further, it was open to Creation to obtain and 
provide persuasive evidence that an effective remedy had been performed before Mrs D had 
the windows replaced. She informed it of her claim in early August 2022, and it set out its 
response later that month. If that opportunity has since passed, I don’t consider Creation can 
fairly argue that was down to Mrs D’s actions.
I’ve noted the comments relating to the window and door handles, and it seems that this 
remains an outstanding concern that requires further inspection and possibly rectification. 
I’m satisfied Mrs D raised it within the guarantee period and within a reasonable time period 
that might apply under considerations of durability. So I find it appropriate to include this 
aspect within the overall resolution intended to bring matters to a close.
It doesn’t seem to me reasonable to say that Creation has done enough to demonstrate it 
has had proper regard for its potential liability to Mrs D, given the known shortcomings of 
W’s report and the onus the CRA places on the trader (and by extension, Creation) to 
demonstrate the work conformed to contract. It follows that I am upholding Mrs D’s 
complaint.
Putting things right
The remedies available to Mrs D under the CRA include – but aren’t limited to – requiring 
repeat performance, a price reduction, reimbursement where consideration for payment of 
the money has failed, and a damages claim. Noting that Mrs D has replaced the windows 
(which appears to have addressed the problems she was experiencing), some of those 
remedies are no longer appropriate. And some of them have broadly the same effect as 
each other.
Bearing all of this in mind, I share our investigator’s view that to settle Mrs D’s complaint 
(and by way of addressing Creation’s liability for the breach of contract claim), Creation 
should – within 28 days of receiving Mrs D’s acceptance of this decision – take the following 
steps:
1.
apply a credit of £1,140 to Mrs D’s finance balance to reflect the additional cost she’s 
incurred in addressing the problems caused by W’s installation. For the avoidance of 
doubt, this credit should be backdated to November 2022, when Mrs D replaced the 
windows
2.
pay Mrs D £250 (as it has already agreed to do) in recognition of her distress and 
inconvenience
3.
arrange for an appropriate business to inspect the outstanding issues with the 
window and door handles, and pay for any remedial work identified as necessary
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
take the steps I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4260688
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as Creation (“Creation”) 
handled a claim she made in relation to a fixed sum loan agreement. 
What happened
Mrs M purchased a sofa, through a company I’ll refer to as “S”, through a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Creation in August 2021. The cost of the sofa was £4,055.99. The delivery 
of the sofa cost an additional £69 and Mrs M purchased a leather care kit for £50. Mrs M 
also purchased a premium leather warranty and a recliner care package totalling £340.    
Mrs M paid a deposit of £100. So under her agreement with Creation, she was required to 
make 48 monthly payments of £91.97. The sofa was delivered to Mrs M in November 2021.
In August 2022, Mrs M says she complained to S and told them she was unhappy with the 
quality of the sofa. She says this was after she noticed in around July 2022 the sofa was 
sagging in some places and she found bolts on the floor whilst cleaning it. In October 2022, 
S arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa. Mrs M says the technician fitted the bolts 
back to the sofa and puffed up the cushions. In December 2022, Mrs M referred her 
complaint to Creation.
Creation issued its response to Mrs M’s complaint in January 2023. However, it confirmed 
that the technician said the sofa had no defects and was fit for purpose and so, it rejected 
Mrs M’s claim.
Unhappy with this, Mrs M referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said the sofa wasn’t used frequently as both her and her husband worked five days a 
week. She said the matter was affecting her mental health as she was paying a lot of money 
for a sofa that was of poor quality. She said to put things right, she wanted S to collect the 
sofa and allow her to choose another one. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didn’t think Creation had acted unfairly. She 
said the issue with the loose bolts had been rectified. She also said she hadn’t seen any 
evidence to suggest there was a manufacturing defect with the sofa. And so, she concluded 
that the sofa was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
Mrs M disagreed. She said the sofa was a costly purchase and she was paying for 
something which was of poor quality. She said bolts were falling off and she was keeping it 
covered in throws to hide the cushions sagging. 
As Mrs M remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities – in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
I’ve read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs M has raised a number of 
different complaint points. I’ve concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I don’t comment on 
any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on board and think about it – but 
because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
To make it clear, this complaint is about Creation, as it is Mrs M’s finance provider. It’s not 
about S, who is not the lender.
What I need to decide in this case is whether I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation 
to decline Mrs M’s claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“s75”).
Under s75, Creation is jointly liable for any breaches of contract or misrepresentations made 
by the supplier of goods or services – which is S in this case. 
In order for there to be a valid claim under s75, there needed to be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
(‘DCS’) agreement in place. Mrs M made the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement 
which was provided by Creation and signed by Mrs M. I can see the invoice from S is in   
Mrs M’s name. So, I’m satisfied a valid DCS agreement exists here.
I’ve then considered the financial limits that apply to a valid s75 claim. Mrs M needed to have 
purchased a single item with a cash price of over £100, but not more than £30,000. I can see 
from the invoice that the amount is within the financial limits. So, it follows that I’m satisfied 
the financial limits have been met for a valid claim. 
Overall, I’m satisfied Mrs M has a like claim against Creation. What I now need to consider is 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation that took place. 
When considering this, it’s important to note that The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”) 
implies a term into the contract that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect. So the sofa’s condition at the 
point of supply, should meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
considering factors such as the description and price of the goods. 
The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their general state and 
condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Mrs M purchased a brand new sofa for which she agreed to pay a total of £4,055.99. 
Bearing this in mind, I don’t think a reasonable person would expect the sofa to have any 
problems for a considerable amount of time and I think they would have high expectations 
for the quality of the sofa. If the quality of the sofa was unsatisfactory, I would consider this 
to be a breach of contract.
Mrs M complained about loose bolts and said the sofa was sagging. 
I’ve seen a copy of the report by the technician which was carried out in October 2022. The 
report confirmed that two bolts had come loose from the mechanism frame as they had not 
been fitted correctly. The technician fitted the bolts back to the frame and said this resolved 
the issue. He also said the recliner mechanisms were secure and working correctly. The 
technician provided photographs to show the repair work being carried out and completed 
and provided general photographs of the sofa. 
Both Mrs M and the technician agree that two bolts were loose from the sofa. However, the 
technician has shown these loose bolts were reattached to the sofa. I don’t think the sofa 
should have been provided with two loose bolts, but I’m satisfied this issue was repaired by 
the technician and so, any potential breach of contract has been corrected. Mrs M has said 
since then bolts are falling off the sofa again, but she hasn’t provided any supporting 
information to demonstrate this.  
With regards to the sagging of the sofa, Mrs M has provided two photographs of the front 
lower sections of the sofa. Both photographs show some sagging to the front cushions which 
appear to show recent use. The technician’s photographs are of the whole sofa and don’t 
show the sagging to the front cushions shown in Mrs M’s photographs. Mrs M’s testimony 
confirms that the technician puffed up the cushions during his visit. This may explain why the 
sofa doesn’t show any sagging and looks like it has normal wear in the technician’s 
photographs. On balance, I’m not satisfied the supporting information provided demonstrates 
that the sofa has an issue beyond normal wear and tear in regards to the sagging of the 
cushions. 
In light of this, I think the sofa supplied to Mrs M by S is of satisfactory quality. And so, I don’t 
think there has been a breach of contract. Nor have I seen anything to suggest the sofa was 
misrepresented. It follows all of this that I don’t think Creation unfairly declined Mrs M’s 
complaint under s75.
My final decision
I don’t uphold Mrs M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4261173
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr C has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) responded 
to claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged 
unfair relationship taking into account section 140A (“s.140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the “CCA”). 
Mr C has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to 
Mr C throughout.  
What happened 
In October 2014 Mr C entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for a 
£7,642 solar panel system (“the system”) from a supplier I’ll call “S”. The total price of the 
system on the invoice was £8,492 but S contributed £849.20 to the deal. The total amount 
payable under the agreement was £11,513.02 and it was due to be paid back with 120 
monthly repayments of £87.60. There was a £135 arrangement fee; interest of £3,736.02; 
and a deposit contribution of £1,000 from Mr C.  
In July 2022 Mr C sent a letter of claim to Creation explaining he thought the system was 
mis-sold. He said S cold called him and persuaded him to have a sales meeting at his home. 
He said S made several misrepresentations, the main one being that the system would be 
self-funding. He said S told him the electricity generated by the system would lead to him 
being paid feed in tariff (FIT) payments. He said S told him he’d make significant savings on 
his electricity bills and the benefits would cover the loan payments. Mr C said he wasn’t 
given enough time to go through the paperwork and he’d calculated his monthly shortfall 
through the system as being around £35. Mr C said the system was misrepresented and 
believed the statements and several other actions at the time of the sale created an unfair 
relationship between himself and Creation.  
Creation sent a final response letter in January 2023 to say it was dismissing the complaint 
without consideration because it had been brought out of time.  
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr C decided to refer his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman in January 2023.  
One of our investigators looked into things and thought S had likely told Mr C the system 
would be self-funding and that the documentation didn’t clearly set out it wasn’t. She didn’t 
think the system was self-funding over the course of the loan term, and so she thought S 
had misrepresented it. She thought a court would likely find the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair and that he’d suffered a loss through entering into the agreement. 
She thought Creation should recalculate the loan based on known and assumed savings 
and income over the course of the loan so that he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
system. She also recommended £100 compensation for the impact of Creation not 
investigating the s.140A claim.  
 
 
I can’t see we received a response from Creation. As things weren’t resolved, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.   
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My findings on jurisdiction  
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint  
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship 
continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Mr C. Here the relationship was ongoing at 
the time Mr C complained to Creation in 2022 and referred his complaint to the ombudsman 
service in 2023, so the complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our 
jurisdiction. 
Merits 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by S can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A.  
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction.  
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming S to be the agent of Creation in any 
antecedent negotiations.  
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by S for which Creation was responsible under s.56 when 
considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C.  
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A. 
What happened? 
Mr C says he was verbally misled that the system would effectively pay for itself. So I’ve 
taken account of what Mr C says he was told. I’ve also reviewed the documentation that I’ve 
been supplied.   
The fixed sum loan agreement sets out the amount being borrowed; the interest charged; 
the total amount payable; the term; and the contractual monthly loan repayments. I think this 
was set out clearly enough for Mr C to be able to understand what was required to be repaid 
towards the agreement. But it doesn’t set out any of the estimated benefits of the system.  
 
 
Mr C supplied a copy of the commissioning confirmation; a 10-year guarantee covering 
workmanship and materials; the MCS certificate; and a deposit protection form. But those 
forms don’t set out the estimated savings Mr C was likely to make from having the system 
installed.  
Mr C has, however, also supplied another signed document he was given by S with a 
section titled income and savings. This form sets out Mr C could expect total annual savings 
of £744.57, and a 20-year benefit of over £31,000. It also set out the payback year was year 
7. The income and savings form doesn’t, however, include details of the interest Mr C would 
need to pay under the finance agreement. Based on the figures on the form I can see why 
Mr C was led to believe the system would be self-funding within the loan term. The form 
says it was a 7-year payback time – although as I’ve said, the form didn’t have the interest 
included. But even with interest being applied and Mr C being asked to pay back around 
£11,500 in total, given the estimated 20-year benefit was over £30,000, I can understand 
why he felt the system would be self-funding within the loan term. And even though the first 
year annual saving estimate of around £750 wouldn’t have covered the annual loan 
repayment of around £1,000, I’m mindful the estimated savings would have been expected 
to grow year on year. I think it should have been made much clearer the payback time was 
not applicable if the system was paid for using a finance agreement.  
I’ve also looked at S’s website from around the time Mr C bought the system. I can see the 
website sets out the option to spread payments for customers to help bring the start of their 
investment forward. It goes on to say The savings will outweigh the interest paid! It also 
markets the systems as being able to generate a return on investment of between 8% and 
12%.  
I think it follows that if the website sets out the return on investment, and that savings would 
outweigh interest paid, it’s likely this formed part of the discussions with S and Mr C when he 
bought the system.  
I’m of the opinion that all of the above information supports Mr C’s testimony. 
 
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Mr C said happened. Yet Mr C left the 
meeting with S having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly repayment of 
£87.60, payable for 10 years. Given the financial burden he took on I find Mr C’s account of 
what he was told by S, credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, 
and I can’t see why he would have seen this purchase appealing had he not been given the 
reassurances he’s said he received from S.  
For the solar panels to pay for themselves within the loan term, they would need to produce 
combined savings and FIT income of over £1,000 per year. However, I don’t think the 
system would provide enough benefit to be self-funding within the term of the loan. So, these 
statements were not true. I think S’s representative must reasonably have been aware that 
Mr C’s system would not have produced benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of 
the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of sunlight as an example, I think S’s 
representative would have known that Mr C’s system would not produce enough benefits to 
cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales stated verbally to Mr C. 
Considering Mr C’s account about what he was told, the documentation and that Creation 
hasn’t disputed these facts, I think it likely S gave Mr C a false and misleading impression of 
the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
I consider S’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the 
system, namely the benefits and savings which Mr C was expected to receive by agreeing to 
the installation of the system. I consider that S’s assurances in this regard likely amounted to 
 
 
a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the capacity to fund the loan 
repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they nonetheless represented the 
basis upon which Mr C went into the transaction. Either way, I think S’s assurances were 
seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of the transaction from Mr C’s point 
of view. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A? 
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for S’s negotiations with Mr C in respect of its 
misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system, I’m 
persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship between Mr C 
and Creation was unfair. 
Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual benefits, each month he has had 
to pay more than he expected to cover the difference between his solar benefits and the cost 
of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan he would 
otherwise have not taken out. 
The s.75 complaint 
Given my above conclusions and bearing in mind the purpose of my decision is to provide a 
fair outcome quickly with minimal formality, I don’t think I need to provide a detailed analysis 
of Mr C’s s.75 complaint. Furthermore, this doesn’t stop me from reaching a fair outcome in 
the circumstances.   
Fair compensation  
In all the circumstances I consider that fair compensation should aim to remedy the 
unfairness of Mr C and Creation’s relationship arising out of S’s misleading and false 
assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system.  
Therefore, Creation should repay Mr C a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could 
reasonably have expected as a result of S’s assurances. That is, that Mr C’s loan 
repayments should amount to no more than the financial benefits he received for the original 
term of the loan agreement.  
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement based on the 
known and assumed savings and income Mr C received from the system over the 10-year 
term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do that, I think it’s important to consider 
the benefit Mr C received by way of FIT payments as well as through energy savings. Mr C 
will need to supply up to date details, where available, of all FIT benefits received, electricity 
bills and current meter readings to Creation.  
Creation should also be aware that whether my determination constitutes a money award or 
direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair compensation need not be what a court 
would award or order. This reflects the nature of the ombudsman service’s scheme as one 
which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal. 
Finally, I consider that Creation’s failure to fully deal with Mr C’s s.140A claim or complaint 
caused Mr C some degree of trouble and upset. In recognition of this, and in addition to what 
I have already set out above, Creation should also pay Mr C £100. 
 
 
 
My final decision 
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I uphold Mr C’s complaint and 
direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to: 
• 
Calculate the total payments Mr C has made towards the solar panel system up until 
the date of settlement of his complaint – A  
• 
Use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements, to work out the benefits he received up until the 
settlement* – B 
• 
Use B to recalculate what Mr C should have paid each month towards the loan over 
that period and calculate the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple annual interest to any overpayment from 
the date of each payment until the date of settlement of his complaint** – C  
• 
Reimburse C to Mr C 
• 
If required, use Mr C’s bills and FIT statements to work out the benefits he will 
receive for the period between the settlement of his complaint and the end of the 
original loan term* – D 
• 
Rework the loan so that the remaining balance is D and recalculate the remaining 
monthly payments equally over the remaining term of the loan or allow Mr C to 
continue with his current payment so the loan finishes early. 
• 
Pay Mr C an additional £100 compensation 
*Where Mr C is unable to provide all the details of his meter readings, electricity bills and/or 
FIT benefits, I am satisfied he has provided sufficient information in order for Creation to 
complete the calculation I have directed it follow in the circumstances using known and 
reasonably assumed benefits.  
** If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2024. 
  
 
Simon Wingfield 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4267799
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss P complains about a claim she made to Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as 
Creation.
What happened
Miss P purchased laser eye treatment from a clinic (‘the supplier’) at the start of 2010 
financed by a credit card (from a third party) and a loan from Creation (provided in 2009). 
However, Miss P said the supplier ceased trading and would not honour a lifetime 
guarantee. As a result she wrote to Creation in May 2022 via a consumer portal to raise a 
claim to it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (‘Section 75’) for a refund or 
compensation towards further treatment.
Miss P complained she had not heard anything from Creation. Eventually she referred the 
matter to this service in August 2022 when she did not hear back
After this service got involved Creation sent Miss P a final response letter in February 2023. 
However, it did not uphold the complaint. In summary, it said that in considering the Section 
75 claim it had regard to the Limitation Act 1980 (‘the LA’) and the time limits for bringing an 
action for misrepresentation. It noted that the sale of the treatment took place more than six 
years before Miss P raised her Section 75 claim. As a result (and with the LA in mind) it said 
it would not investigate her Section 75 claim further.
Our investigator looked at how Creation had handled the claim. In brief she concluded that 
Creation took too long to give Miss P a claim outcome but it didn’t act unfairly in not 
upholding it because there was no clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Miss P disagreed. In summary, she believes the supplier promised to correct her eyesight for 
the better if needed / do anything to better her eyesight.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I won’t comment on everything said by the parties – only those matters I consider to be 
central to this dispute. This is not intended to be a discourtesy to either side but reflects my 
role resolving disputes informally.
One important thing to note here is that we don’t appear to have been able to obtain a copy 
of the finance agreement. Creation says this is because of its age. This can have 
implications not only on our jurisdiction but also on the criteria for a valid Section 75 claim. 
However, I have proceeded here on the basis that Creation has not disputed that Miss P 
took out a regulated consumer credit agreement with it to fund the treatment – nor that she 
was the customer who contracted with the clinic for the purposes of Section 75. 
Section 75 
In certain circumstances Section 75 allows Miss P to claim against Creation for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation in respect of the agreement she has with the supplier here.
There are certain criteria for a valid Section 75 claim – and I have limited information which 
makes it difficult to determine if this is met. However, based on what I know (and considering 
that it doesn’t make a difference to the outcome in respect of the claim here in any event) I 
am satisfied that Miss P has a claim against Creation.
Creation has raised limitation periods set out in law as being a reason why it is not 
responsible for a potential claim for breach of contract. Essentially it is saying that as Miss P 
had the treatment in 2010 she would be ‘timed out ‘of taking the supplier to court – hence 
this would mean that it would not fairly be responsible for any ‘like claim’ against the 
supplier. I have thought about this – I think that Creation might be mistaken here as limitation 
periods can be from the date on which the cause of action accrued – which isn’t always the 
date the service was originally performed. However, because I am making a finding that 
there is no breach or misrepresentation by the supplier here in any event I don’t consider it 
necessary to discuss limitation periods in detail as it doesn’t make a difference to the 
outcome.
I consider the central issue to be whether or not there has been a breach of contract by the 
original supplier no longer being around to honour the guarantee. However, this is not a 
straightforward question to answer. I have seen the guarantee and it is not an unequivocal 
promise to re-treat. I don’t think as Miss P says that the supplier promised to do whatever it 
took to better her sight. There are several conditions listed in the terms acknowledging 
situations where follow up treatment is not possible (where risks outweigh the benefits), and 
setting out particular requirements regarding eye maintenance and aftercare in order to 
remain eligible. Furthermore, there are many exclusions to the guarantee including where 
certain eye diseases or degenerative conditions (including common age related conditions) 
develop.
This is a complex medical area which I don’t have expertise in so I am relying on the 
information I have in order to decide what is fair and reasonable. I note, in light of the 
requirements of the guarantee there are many different variables here which could mean 
that Miss P is not eligible for follow up treatment. I also note that:

she had the treatment a long time ago (2010) – so the chance of developing a 
condition associated with an exclusion or age related degeneration appears more 
likely;

information she has got from other practitioners suggests she needs different 
treatment now due to age and that laser is no longer a recommended course of 
action; and

there is also a lack of information here showing what outcome the consumer was 
promised and what she initially ended up with – along with questions around whether 
she followed the required aftercare to maintain the guarantee.
As I have said, I am not an expert in analysing Miss P’s current eye health and the 
implications of the passage of time on the eligibility for further treatment. This muddies the 
question as to whether or not Miss P would be eligible for further treatment under the terms 
of the guarantee. I note there isn’t any compelling (such as expert) evidence to show that 
she would be eligible for further treatment under the terms of the guarantee at no cost to her. 
I am not able to compel witnesses or experts for cross examination – so in my role resolving 
disputes informally I have to go on the information I do have. Based on this I am unable to 
fairly conclude that there is an outstanding breach of contract that Creation should remedy in 
light of is liability under Section 75. For completeness – although not a focus of Miss P’s 
claim I don’t consider there to be persuasive evidence of a misrepresentation here either as 
there isn’t compelling evidence that Miss P didn’t get what she was promised (in light of the 
various variables and exclusions outlined in the paperwork and impacting medical 
treatments of this kind).
Although Miss P has not specifically said that the original treatment was carried out poorly 
(in fact she indicates she had good results) for completeness I have considered the fact that 
Miss P has had deterioration in her eyesight does not necessarily mean there was a breach 
of contract in respect of the original treatment. And based on the limited information I have 
(and noting my lack of expertise) I am unable to fairly conclude that it was performed without 
reasonable care and skill in any event. 
I know Miss P has pointed to her credit card claim and online information to support her case 
here. But while I note this I look at each case on the individual circumstances – it doesn’t 
persuade me that there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation here.
However, I have considered the customer service Creation provided – I note Miss P raised a 
claim with it and then didn’t hear back substantively for several months. She wrote chasers 
and follow ups and felt that Creation had been quite rude in not responding. Creation did 
finally respond more fully after this service got involved but it was some months later. While 
Miss P has not focused on this since the investigator’s view I think it is fair and reasonable 
for Creation to pay her something to reflect the distress and inconvenience she has suffered. 
I have informed both Creation and Miss P about my proposal – and not heard back from 
either with any objections. So I see no reason not to make this award.
Putting things right
I have considered the delays here and the distress caused to Miss P and inconvenience in 
having to chase Creation over several months. Keeping in mind the nature of our awards (as 
set out on our website) I think £150 is a fair and reasonable amount to award here. However, 
for the reasons already given I don’t think Creation needs to pay anything to Miss P for 
follow up eye treatment.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd trading as 
Creation to pay Miss P £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4269159
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr N complains Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) charged interest on a loan 
following the end of a Buy Now Pay Later (“BNPL”) promotional period without warning him 
they would do so. He also complains about the overall service provided by Creation. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr N purchased a sofa at a cost of around £1,100 from a retailer. He 
also purchased an insurance policy at a cost of £160. He paid a deposit of £300 and 
financed the remainder via a credit agreement with Creation. 
The agreement gave a BNPL option which allowed him to delay paying for 52 weeks without 
paying any interest as long as he paid the full balance of £978 by 24 November 2020.
Mr N didn’t make any payments during the BNPL period but he says it was always his 
intention to pay the full balance by the end to avoid any interest being applied. In December 
2020, he made a payment of £818. Creation said because the full balance wasn’t paid by the 
BNPL end date, they were entitled to apply interest.
Mr N complained he had never received the credit agreement and Creation hadn’t told him 
when the BNPL period would end. He was also unhappy about the overall service from 
Creation including setting up direct debits without his authority and failing to provide him with 
statements. 
Creation said the agreement was clear about the BNPL period. They said an annual 
statement was sent to Mr N as a reminder as to when it was coming to an end but full 
payment wasn’t received. They added as there was an outstanding balance, direct debit 
payments were initiated to be taken from Mr N’s bank account in May 2022. Lastly they said 
there was no evidence Mr N contacted them before the BNPL period came to an end.  
Unhappy with their response, Mr N referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the complaint wasn’t upheld. She said the agreement and welcome letter 
were clear about the BNPL period and the amount Mr N needed to pay to avoid interest. She 
concluded Creation acted fairly by applying interest. 
Mr N disagreed and maintained his position. He also commented Creation had the incorrect 
email address for him which may explain why he received no correspondence from them. 
In June 2023, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intentions to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
 
“As a starting point, I’ve referred to the credit agreement, I’m satisfied it clearly sets out a 
number of details including the cost of the sofa, the insurance cost, the total amount payable 
and the amount needed to be paid by the end of the BNPL period otherwise interest would 
be applied if it wasn’t met. Mr N electronically signed this agreement in November 2019 so 
I’m satisfied he was aware of the same. 
In cases involving BNPL agreements, The Financial Conduct Authority’s Handbook says at 
CONC 6.7.16A:
“Where a customer has the benefit of a zero-percentage or low interest, introductory 
or promotional offer that depends on the customer meeting certain conditions, 
a firm must provide notice to the customer reminding them of any action they need to 
take to meet the conditions of the offer and the date by which this action must be 
taken, within a reasonable period before that date, taking account of the time at 
which the information may be most useful to the customer”.
It also goes on to say that notice must be provided in an appropriate medium, be sufficiently 
prominent and take into account any communication preferences by the consumer. So I’ve 
taken this into account when considering this complaint. 
Generally speaking, such reminders of the BNPL period are set out in the account 
statements. Alternatively, some firms may send separate correspondence about it. In this 
case, I’m not satisfied Creation has provided sufficient evidence to demonstrate they sent 
notice to Mr N to remind him about the BNPL end date and what he was required to do. 
They said they sent him a statement but according to them, it was dated December 2021. 
That is a year after the BNPL ended so I wouldn’t consider that advanced notice. The other 
correspondence that Creation say was sent to Ms N were also after the BNPL period ended. 
Mr N says he never received a copy of the agreement or any other correspondence from 
Creation but he had always intended to pay the balance by the end of the BNPL period. 
Creation may argue if that was the case, it would’ve been reasonable for him to contact them 
sooner than he did. Whilst I’m inclined to agree, that doesn’t negate their obligation as 
outlined above.  
With the exception of the initial credit agreement, I’ve seen no other satisfactory evidence for 
me to reasonably say Creation gave Mr N sufficient notice the BNPL period was ending.  
Therefore I can’t say they acted fairly or in line with the FCA’s above requirements. 
Evidence shows Mr N made a payment of £818 in December 2020. He says this was the 
amount and the date he believed he needed to pay to satisfy the BNPL. I’m convinced by his 
testimony given the amount he paid and the fact it wasn’t necessarily long after the period 
ended. In the absence of any paperwork and given when the agreement was entered into, 
it’s understandable he forgot the exact amount and the promotional end date. 
It would appear Mr N’s payment in December 2020 was the remaining amount for the sofa 
only and he failed to take into account the cost of the insurance policy. I’m aware he 
disputes agreeing to take out such a policy but I note that wasn’t a point he raised to 
Creation when bringing this complaint to our service. So it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to 
make any comment on that particular issue. He will need to raise it directly with Creation and 
allow them to investigate.
I’m persuaded had Creation correctly notified Mr N the BNPL period was coming to an end 
and the balance he needed to pay, he would’ve done so. I say this because I’m satisfied it 
was always his intention to do so, he had sufficient funds to pay it and his payment in 
December 2020 supports that. So to put things right, I find he should be able to pay the sofa 
and insurance policy without any interest.
Other
I’ve taken into account Mr N’s comments about the level of service by Creation. I won’t 
address every point but I can assure him I’ve considered them all. Instead I’ve thought about 
the overall service and having done so, I agree that it fell below what a reasonable person 
would expect.
He's raised the fact Creation had the incorrect email address for him. Based on the evidence 
presented to me I can see it was missing two digits. I’ve asked Creation to provide evidence 
of the application to determine what email address was given and how Mr N said he 
preferred to be contacted. However this evidence hasn’t been provided. So in the absence of 
any contradictory evidence, I find it’s most likely either Creation or the retailer incorrectly 
inputted Mr N’s email meaning Creation’s correspondence was sent to the wrong email 
which explains why it was never received by Mr N. 
I’ve also seen evidence where Mr N had contacted them to find out about the account as he 
was concerned what was happening and whether he needed to take any further action. 
However on some occasions, I can’t see Creation provided an adequate response, if any at 
all. Mr N says when he made the payment in December 2020 he believed that settled the 
agreement in full. So I can understand his surprise when Creation started taking direct debits 
from his account in May 2022, that’s over two years after the BNPL period came to an end. 
Creation hasn’t provided any explanation about this or the reason for the delay. It’s unclear 
whether this has negatively impacted his credit file. If so, all adverse information about this 
agreement should be removed from Mr N’s credit file.  
Mr N says this situation has caused him much trouble and upset. He was chased by a third 
party company for the debt, sent demand letters, he had concerns about the impact on his 
credit file and he tried to speak to Creation on numerous occasions but without much 
success. Given the likely impact on him, I find Creation should pay £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Overall I’m not satisfied Creation followed the FCA’s requirements. They failed to sufficiently 
give notice to Mr N that the BNPL period was coming to an end. Had they done so, I believe 
he would’ve paid the outstanding balance in full thereby avoiding the interest.
So to put things right, Creation should rework the account and remove any interest and allow 
Mr N to pay the outstanding balance in full (if not already done so). If after re-working the 
account it is found Mr N has overpaid, these amounts should be refunded to him plus 8% 
simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. Also Creation 
should  remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr N’s credit file and pay 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused”. 
Response to the provisional decision
Mr N accepted the findings. Creation didn’t provide any further comment. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I haven’t been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I’ve decided to uphold Mr N’s complaint. 
To put things right, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
-
Rework the account and remove all interest from Mr N’s agreement and allow him to 
pay the outstanding balance in full (if not done so already);
-
Refund any overpayments plus pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement*;
-
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr N’s credit file;
-
Pay £100 compensation to Mr N for the trouble and upset caused. 
*If Creation Consumer Finance Ltd considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much it’s taken off. It should 
also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4279144
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd demanded an outstanding balance on 
her loan account after she believed it had been settled in 2019.
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs M requested an early settlement figure on her loan with Creation. 
Mrs M paid the amount to Creation, but the direct debit for the December payment was later 
returned and re-applied to Mrs M’s loan account and Creation treated Mrs M’s payment as a 
one-off credit and deducted it from the outstanding balance. This left a balance on the loan 
account that included the missed payment and the rebate of interest from the settlement 
figure. 
In October 2022, Mrs M received a telephone call from Creation telling her that there was an 
outstanding balance on her loan account. After Mrs M complained, Creation explained it had 
credited the payment she made in December 2019 to the outstanding balance and when the 
balance had been used, it contacted her to explain she was now in arrears. Creation didn’t 
uphold the complaint. 
Mrs M brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. After receiving evidence from Mrs M and Creation, the 
Investigator thought that Creation hadn’t done anything significantly wrong. Mrs M asked that 
an Ombudsman decides the complaint.
I reached a significantly different outcome to the Investigator and decided to issue a 
provisional decision for the parties to consider and comment on before I made my final 
decision. I said that I intended asking Creation to recalculate the outstanding balance on Mrs 
M’s loan to reflect that the arrears related only to the missed direct debit payment. I made it 
clear that this would mean Creation should reduce the balance on Mrs M’s loan account to 
£321.59 with effect from the date the cancelled direct debit amount was debited to the loan 
account. As Creation treated the payment Mrs M made in December 2019 as lump sum or 
one-off payment, and didn’t tell her for almost three years, I said I intended saying Creation 
should only charge interest on the £321.59 from 14 October 2022 to when Mrs M settled this 
amount. 
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision and thought that I should consider asking 
Creation to amend the information it had reported to credit reference agencies as the 
account had been reported as being in arrears for many months. Mrs M provided copies of 
her credit reports and after considering these, I wrote to Mrs M and Creation again. I said 
that as I’ve seen no evidence that Creation told Mrs M that she had missed a payment until 
October 2022 I don’t think the information on her credit report is fair and reasonable - and it 
has had a disproportionate impact on Mrs M credit records. I acknowledged that Creation 
had put the account on hold earlier this year, but I don’t think the information Creation has 
provided to the credit reference agencies accurately reflects what happened in this case as – 
Mrs M only missed one payment and that was in December 2019. The information supplied 
suggests that Mrs M missed a number of payments and that the account has been in arrears 
since November 2022. I said I intended asking Creation to amend the information it sent to 
the credit agencies to reflect that Mrs M hadn’t missed payments after December 2019 and I 
asked for any further response by 3 August 2023.
Creation has since responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. Mrs M and 
Creation have provided no further comments for me to consider.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There’s no dispute that Mrs M requested an early settlement figure from Creation in 
December 2019, nor is there a dispute that Mrs M paid the figure Creation provided. It’s also 
accepted that the direct debit due in December wasn’t paid. So, it seems to me that the crux 
of this complaint is what happened after this that resulted in Mrs M having an outstanding 
balance on her loan account some three years later. I will now consider whether Creation 
acted fairly and reasonably during this period and did what was reasonable to keep Mrs M 
informed about her loan account.
Creation says it sent Mrs M a letter informing her that the December payment had been 
missed on 17 December. Whilst I haven’t been provided with a copy of the actual letter, I 
have seen an entry on the loan account notes to show me the letter was sent to Mrs M. So, I 
think it’s more likely than not this was the case. Mrs M may not have received it, but 
regardless of this, the final sentence contained in the template letter Creation provided 
states, “This letter can be ignored if you have already paid your account off in full.” I don’t 
think this letter would have concerned Mrs M if she had received it as she believed she’d 
paid off the balance of the loan in full.
Mrs M says she didn’t hear from Creation again about her loan until October 2022. The 
account notes provided by Creation confirm that its next contact with Mrs M was in October 
2022. Creation explains that Mrs M had access to her loan account on-line and should have 
been aware of the outstanding balance. Mrs M says that as she thought she’d cleared the 
loan, she had no reason to go on-line and check the balance.
The missed direct debit letter was unclear, and Creation relied on Mrs M to access her on-
line account after she reasonably believed she’d paid off the outstanding balance. I think 
Creation should reasonably have done more to let Mrs M know the loan hadn’t been cleared. 
I understand Creation’s position that technically Mrs M’’s loan wasn’t in arrears until the 
credit she’d paid in December 2019 had been used up, but Mrs M wouldn’t have known what 
had happened unless Creation told her. I’ve decided that Creation’s lack of direct 
communication with Mrs M for almost three years made this position much worse than it 
should have been.
Mrs M says that she paid the settlement figure Creation provided. Creation can’t provide a 
recording of the call Mrs M made to obtain the figure but notes on Mrs M’s account show the 
settlement future was generated on 6 December and was valid until 3 January 2020. I think 
it’s more likely than not this into account that Mrs M would pay the December direct debit. I 
think it’s more likely than not Mrs M is responsible for the December direct debit being 
cancelled – particularly as there’s no evidence Creation cancelled it. In this regard, I intend 
saying Mrs M should’ve paid this amount to Creation and that Creation is entitled to receive 
it to clear the loan.
Putting things right
It seems to me that it was Mrs M’s intention to clear the loan in December 2019, but for the 
reasons I’ve detailed above things didn’t go as planned. So, I’ve decided Creation should 
recalculate the outstanding balance on Mrs M’s loan to reflect that the arrears relate only to 
the missed direct debit payment of £321.59. To reflect this, Creation should reduce the 
balance on Mrs M’s loan account to £321.59 with effect from the date the cancelled direct 
debit amount was debited back to the loan account. 
Creation treated the payment Mrs M made in December 2019 as lump sum or one-off 
payment but didn’t tell her it had done so for almost three years. So, in this regard, I’ve 
decided that Creation should only charge interest on the £321.59 from 14 October 2022, 
which is when it told Mrs M of the arrears, until the date of settlement.
The information Creation provided to the credit reference agencies doesn’t fairy reflect what 
actually happened in this case. So, Creation should amend the information it sent to the 
credit agencies to reflect that Mrs M only missed the December 2019 payment, and that the 
account wasn’t in arrears after the credit Creation applied to the account had been used up.
I’ve given a lot of thought about whether Creation should pay Mrs M some distress and 
inconvenience in this case, but I’ve taken into account that if Mrs M hadn’t cancelled the 
direct debit the matter wouldn’t have escalated as it did. So, in this regard, as my remedy 
has put Mrs M back into the position she would reasonably have been in but for the fact she 
cancelled the direct debit, I won’t be asking Creation to pay Mrs M anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve detailed above I’ve upheld Mrs M’s complaint and Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd should:

reduce the balance on Mrs M’s loan account to £321.59 with effect from the date the 
cancelled direct debit amount was debited back to the loan account

charge interest on the £321.59 from 14 October 2022 until the date of settlement

amend the information it sent to the credit agencies to reflect that Mrs M has only 
missed the December 2019 payment, and that the account wasn’t in arrears after the 
credit applied to the account had been used up
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4279595
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”)
responded to a claim he’d made under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(the “CCA”) and in relation to an alleged unfair relationship taking into account section 
140A (s140A) of the CCA.
Mr P has been represented in bringing his complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Mr P throughout.
What happened
In December 2013, Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation to pay for 
a £9,795 solar panel system from a supplier I’ll call “B”. The total amount payable under 
the agreement was £15,403.20 and it was due to be paid back with 120 monthly 
repayments of £128.36.
Creation has explained Mr P settled the loan agreement on 12 September 2018.
On 20 December 2019 Creation said it received a letter of complaint from Mr P explaining 
that he considered he had a valid claim against it under s75 due to misrepresentation and 
breach of contract by B. Later Mr P also claimed there had been an unfair relationship 
under s140A. Mr P said he’d been told by B that he could be entitled to a solar panel 
system at no cost to him. He says he was told the system would be fully self-funding. 
Mr P told us that B told him the FIT payments and energy savings would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments. After the loan was repaid Mr P was told he could expect an income 
from the panels. Mr P told us he would not have entered into the agreement if he knew the 
benefits would not cover the cost of the borrowing. 
On the basis of the above Mr P said he had a like claim against Creation for breach of
contract and misrepresentation under s75. He also said section 56 (s56) of the CCA 
deemed B the agent of Creation when carrying out antecedent negotiations, and that the 
relationship between Creation and him was also unfair under s140A because either 
Creation or B falsely induced Mr P to take out a loan and as a result he has been 
prejudiced in paying back a loan with a significant interest rate which was not covered by 
the system installed as promised by B. To resolve the claim and complaint, Mr P 
requested to be compensated. 
Creation sent a final response letter on 21 March 2020 rejecting Mr P’s complaint on the 
basis it was made out of time based on their understanding of the FCA’s DISP rules. 
Creation did not comment on the s75 claim so far as it concerned a breach of contract nor 
the s140A aspect of the complaint in its final response. Mr P wasn’t happy with the 
response to the complaint so decided to refer it to our service on 13 August 2020.
Creation explained that it considered the s75 claim to be time-barred under the Limitation 
Act 1980 (the ‘LA’) due to the limitation period under the LA having expired. Consequently, 
Creation thought they had no liability to Mr P. Creation did not comment on the s75 claim 
so far as it concerned a breach of contract nor the s140A aspect of the complaint in its 
final response.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 (“FSMA”) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook
known as DISP.
The rules surrounding time limits within which to refer complaints are set out in DISP
2.8.2R which include that:
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to
the Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent the
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary
resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction, and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)). The regulated activities 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (“RAO”).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction,
and for the avoidance of doubt, I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance
so far as is necessary for the purposes of addressing this complaint.
I consider the complaint to have been referred to the ombudsman service on 13 August 
2020, which is the date when Mr P’s representative sent details of his complaint to
our service. 
I’ll first consider our service’s jurisdiction to consider Mr P’s s75 and s140A complaints, 
before turning to the merits of those complaints.
My findings on jurisdiction
(1) Jurisdiction to look at the s75 complaint
Where Creation exercises its right and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement
it is carrying out a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under
Article 60B(2) of the RAO. In undertaking that activity, the creditor must honour liabilities 
to the debtor. So, if a debtor advances a valid s75 claim in respect of the credit 
agreement, the creditor has to honour that liability and failing or refusing to do so comes 
under our compulsory jurisdiction.
The event complained of here is Creation’s allegedly wrongful rejection of Mr P’s s75
claim on 21 March 2020. Mr P brought his complaint about this to the ombudsman
service on 13 August 2020. So, his complaint in relation to the s75 claim was brought in
time for the purposes of our service’s jurisdiction.
Creation argued the complaint was out of our jurisdiction taking into account the LA,
but our service has its own rules under DISP 2.8.2R saying when a complaint is
brought too late. The LA does not limit our jurisdiction. However, I do consider that
the LA is relevant law for the purposes of the merits of Mr P’s complaint about its
rejection of the s75 claim, and I have set out why that is the case later in this
decision.
(2) Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship under s140A
Creation has referred us to its final response letter and explained subsequently that the 
s75 claim was time-barred under the LA but has not explicitly raised any objections to our 
jurisdiction to consider the s140A complaint. However, to the extent it may be implied that 
Creation also disputes our jurisdiction to consider the s140A aspect of the complaint, I 
shall address this.
Mr P is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and
Creation per s140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a)
is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an
allegedly unfair relationship with him. This accords with the court’s approach to
assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is performed as at the date when the
credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland plc [2023] UKSC 34.
In this case the credit relationship ended on 12 September 2018 and the complaint in
relation to s140A was referred to the ombudsman service on 13 August 2020. So, the
s140A complaint was brought less than six years after the event complained of and
has been brought in time.
I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the complaint about the alleged unfair
relationship per s140A in the circumstances.
Merits
(1) My findings on the merits of the s75 complaint
Creditors have no means of knowing what s75 liabilities they may have, nor of
investigating such liabilities nor of recovering them from suppliers, unless or until
debtors raise s75 claims against them; and (as I have explained above) raising the
claim, if it’s a valid one, brings the creditor under a duty then to honour its liability.
But it would not be fair or reasonable to require a creditor to respond to s75 claims
however long in the past they arose. And our service must decide complaints on the
basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on the relevant claims, after which they
become time barred. Taking into account this time period, the particular nature of
liability under s75, and the need for the debtor to raise a s75 claim against their
creditor before a cause for complaint to our service can arise, I consider it is fair and
reasonable for a creditor not to have to look into or honour a s75 claim that was first
raised with it by the debtor after the claim had become time barred under LA. This is
in line with our service’s long-standing approach to complaints under s75.
Creation has said the s75 claim was brought outside of the relevant six-year
limitation period under the LA for misrepresentation claims though it does not
address the allegations of the s75 claim arising from a breach of contract. The
alleged misrepresentation cause of action arose when an agreement was entered
into on 5 December 2013 based on the alleged misrepresentations. The alleged
breach of contract isn’t defined but I take it to be that B (acting on behalf of Creation)
warranted that the solar panel system it agreed to provide had the capacity to finance
the loan repayments, when that was incorrect. As such, the alleged breach of
contract also occurred as soon as the agreement was entered into.
The s75 claim wasn’t raised with Creation until 20 December 2019, that is more than
six years after the causes of action against B for misrepresentation and breach of
contract would have accrued for the purposes of the LA around December 2013.
Where it is unlikely a claim against the supplier could succeed due to the expiry of
the likely relevant limitation periods of six years, I am persuaded that it was fair and
reasonable for Creation to decline the s75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of
the complaint.
(2) My findings on the merits of the complaint about an unfair relationship under
s140A
I’ve considered whether representations and contractual promises by I can be
considered under s140A.
Therefore, I’ve considered the court’s approach so far as it is relevant to the merits of
the s140A complaint I am considering. I have taken into account the Court of
Appeal’s judgment in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790
(“Scotland”) which said the following when considering what could be relevant to an
unfair relationship claim under s140A:
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the
whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit
agreement and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three
matters set out ins.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or
on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation of
relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to me to fall squarely
within the scope of this provision.”
Scotland makes it clear that relevant matters would include misrepresentations and
other false or misleading statements as to relevant and important aspects of a
transaction. As I’ve already set out, s56 has the effect of deeming B to be the agent
of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Creation is responsible for the
antecedent negotiations B carried out direct with Mr P.
I think the negotiations were antecedent because they preceded the relevant
conclusion of the agreement. The scope of ‘negotiations’ and ‘dealings’ is wide. And
‘representations’ covers statements of fact, contractual statements and other
undertakings. Taking this into account, I find it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances for me to consider B’s negotiations and arrangements for which
Creation was responsible under s56 of the CCA when deciding whether it’s likely
Creation had acted fairly and reasonably toward Mr P.
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider
whether a Court would find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
The negotiations
Creation hasn’t supplied any evidence on what was (or wasn’t) discussed or
negotiated between Mr P and B.
Mr P told us he was approached by B and informed he could be entitled to have a Solar 
System at absolutely no cost to him. 
I’ve also looked at the paperwork that has been supplied to see if there was any
evidence to support Mr P’s allegation he was told it would be self-funding. The loan 
agreement sets out Mr P’s responsibilities for repaying the loan amount and the monthly 
cost of that. 
I’ve also been supplied a sales brochure that B gave Mr P. That sales document from B 
sets out “11 Good Reasons” to install solar panels. These included: 
“Will give guaranteed returns of over 12%.
Tax free lump sum every year for 20 years.
Save thousands of your bill over next 25 years.
Get paid for using your own free electricity.
Pay as you earn scheme.”
So, this seems to support what Mr P told us; that the cost of the solar panels would be 
fully met from the income and savings they could generate. So, this does not undermine 
the testimony Mr W has given us.
I’ve also looked at B’s website from around the time of the sale. There is no cache of the 
website until April 2014, after Mr P purchased his panels, however the content is 
copyrighted as 2013. I am satisfied on this occasion it is reasonable to take this content 
into account when considering what’s more likely than not to have been said to Mr P.
On the home page it says:
“Free Solar Panels! Really?? This really proves the point about how beneficial solar power 
is. When you see companies advertising FREE Solar Panels they are after getting their 
hands on your rebates Feed In Tariffs for the next 20 years! Which more than covers the 
Solar panel cost and installation. Makes them a good a profit too. Is that free??” 
In the FAQ section it says:
“Q: So if solar panels systems are not free, how much does it cost?
A: Put simply given the generation tariffs that you get (FiTs) for 20 years because you 
installed solar and now generate electricity. Nearly all systems become self funding, 
meaning that the financial rewards far out way the cost of your system. The cost of your 
system will depend on your roof and system size.”
Taking all of this promotional material into account, it seems that consumers were 
supposed to understand that the solar panels would most likely be self-funding. And it 
seems to me most likely that the sales representative Mr P dealt with would’ve used 
similar lines to those B produced in its promotional literature.
Mr P told us that B told him the income from the solar panel system would pay off the 
agreement. I have noted that our investigator thought that Mr P’s testimony seemed 
persuasive and explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that 
Creation has not responded to that assessment. 
I’ve not seen anything to indicate Mr P had an interest in purchasing a solar panel system 
before B contacted him. Mr P has said he only agreed to the purchase because the 
system would be self-funding. I’m mindful that it would be difficult to understand why, in 
this particular case, Mr P would have agreed to install a solar panel system if his monthly 
outgoings would increase significantly. In saying that I’ve noted that Mr P was 75 years old 
and living on pension income at the time the loan agreement was signed.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this complaint, and in the absence of 
any other evidence from Creation to the contrary, on balance it seems more likely than not 
that B did tell Mr P the scheme would be self-funding. On balance, I find Mr P’s account to 
be plausible and convincing.
For the solar panels to be self-funding, they’d need to produce a combined savings
and FIT income of around £1,540 per year. I’ve not seen anything to indicate there’s
a problem with Mr P’s solar panel system. But I’ve also not seen enough to suggest
he’s achieved this benefit. For the FIT statements I’ve seen suggest Mr P received 
significantly less than that amount. I’ve not been supplied copies of Mr P’s electricity bills, 
so I don’t know what savings he made. But based on what I have seen, I think it’s more 
likely than not the system wasn’t self-funding. 
I therefore find the statements made as to the self-funding nature of the system weren’t 
true. I think the salesperson ought to have known this and made it clear that the solar 
panel system wouldn’t have produced enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the 
fixed sum loan agreement. However, I think it’s important to take into account any savings
Mr P made, so I will come back to this later on in this decision.
Taking into account what I’ve said above, I think it likely B gave Mr P a false and
misleading impression of the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I consider
B’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for the
system, namely the benefits which Mr P was expected to receive by agreeing to
installation of the system. I consider that B’s assurances in this regard likely
amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect they
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Mr P went into the transaction. Either
way, B’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose
of the transaction from Mr P’s point of view.
Would a court likely make a finding of unfairness under s140A?
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for B’s negotiations with Mr P in
respect of its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the
solar panel system, I am satisfied that a court would likely find the relationship
between Mr P and Creation to have been unfair.
Mr P has had to pay more than he expected to cover the shortfall towards the
repayments. Creation has benefited from the interest paid on a loan Mr P otherwise
wouldn’t have taken out. Therefore, I am also satisfied that Creation has not treated
Mr P fairly or reasonably in all the circumstances of the complaint. I consider the
fairest way to address this is to resolve the matter as I set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Mr P and Creation’s relationship arising out of B’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Mr P a sum that corresponds to the outcome he could reasonably have expected 
as a result of B’s assurances. That is, that Mr P’s loan repayments should amount to no 
more than the financial benefits he receives for the duration of the loan agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Mr P received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so he pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Mr P received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Mr P may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. I say this particularly as we have been informed that Mr 
P is unwell. 
Creation has explained Mr P settled the loan agreement on 12 September 2018.
Creation should:

Calculate the total repayments Mr P made towards the loan up until he repaid
it – A

Use Mr P’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received up until he repaid the loan – B

Use B to recalculate what Mr P should have repaid each month towards the
loan over that period and reimburse him the difference between what he
actually repaid (A) and what he should have repaid, adding 8% simple annual
interest* to any overpayment, from the date of repayment until the date of
settlement – C

Use his electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits he received between the loan being paid off
and the end of the original loan term – D

Deduct D from the amount Mr P paid off the loan – E

Add 8% simple annual interest* to E from the date Mr P paid off the loan until
the date of settlement – F

Creation should pay Mr P C + F
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Mr P
some further inconvenience. And I think the £200 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr P’s complaint about Creation Consumer 
Finance Limited and require them to calculate and pay the redress detailed above in the 
section above called Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4286656
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss P complains that two sofas acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
weren’t of satisfactory quality. She’s unhappy because Creation rejected her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2021 Miss P ordered two three-seater sofas from a retailer and entered into a finance 
agreement with Creation.
In July 2021 Miss P contacted the retailer and complained that the sofas had been scratched 
in the course of being delivered to her.
The retailer replaced the seat covers in September 2021.
Miss P contacted the retailer again in October 2021 and complained that the seat cushions 
were creased, and the back cushions were dipping.
The retailer arranged for a technician to carry out an assessment of the sofas. Following the 
assessment, the technician said that the sofas were in excellent condition.
Miss P remained unhappy and referred her complaint to Retail ADR (an independent 
adjudication service).
Miss P also raised a section 75 claim with Creation.
Creation rejected the section 75 claim. It said there was no evidence of a breach of contract 
because the assessment had concluded that the furniture was in excellent condition and 
there was no other evidence to suggest that the sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality.
Miss P wasn’t happy with the outcome of her section 75 claim and brought her complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didn’t uphold the complaint. She said she hadn’t seen any evidence to 
suggest that there was a manufacturing defect with the sofas, or that the sofas weren’t of 
satisfactory quality. The investigator said she was satisfied that Creations response to the 
section 75 claim was reasonable.
Miss P didn’t agree so I’ve been asked to review the complaint.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Miss P’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim under section 75 
wasn’t fair or reasonable.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says that goods must be of satisfactory quality when they 
are supplied. If they aren’t, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Miss P first complained about the sofas because there were some scratches on the sofas 
which she believed had been caused in the course of delivering the sofa to her. The retailer 
agreed to replace the seat cushion covers.
Following this, Miss P said she wasn’t happy about the creasing on the seat cushions and 
the dipping on the back cushions.
I can see that the retailer arranged for a technician to visit Miss P and assess the sofas. The 
technicians report states that the dipping of the back cushions was a dressing issue and 
records that advice was given to Miss P on how to dress the sofas. The technician stated 
that the creasing was a natural characteristic of the furniture and concluded that the furniture 
was in excellent condition.
I’ve looked at all of the photos and I’ve reviewed the technicians report. And I’ve taken 
account of everything that Miss P has said. Based on what I’ve seen, there isn’t enough 
evidence to persuade me that there is a manufacturing fault with the sofas, or that the sofas 
weren’t of satisfactory quality when supplied.
I’ve also reviewed the findings of the adjudicator from Retail ADR. The adjudicator looked at 
all of the available evidence and concluded that there was no manufacturing defect with the 
sofas.
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate that Miss P isn’t happy with the sofas, 
there isn’t enough evidence to persuade me that the sofas weren’t of satisfactory quality. So 
I’m unable to say that there’s been a breach of contract for the purposes of section 75. For 
these reasons, I don’t think Creation acted unreasonably when it rejected Miss P’s section 
75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4303681
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss J complains about the way in which Creation Consumer Finance Ltd dealt with her in 
response to a claim she made through the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”).
What happened
Miss J acquired a sofa from a retailer “D” using finance provided by Creation. On taking 
delivery she raised concerns that the sofa didn’t conform to contract and wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality. She says she sought to reject the sofa, but that D arranged for an 
inspection, which confirmed defects. Miss J says she felt coerced by D into accepting a 
repair rather than the replacement she wanted. She contacted Creation setting out her 
concerns in a series of emails.
Creation has said it accepted Miss J’s claim of breach of contract, but declined her request 
for replacement or a full refund. It noted that D had already started the repair process and 
had offered Miss J £300. Creation said this was a fair outcome. Miss J didn’t agree and 
referred matters to us.
Our investigator thought it appropriate to recommend that Creation pay Miss J £100 in 
recognition of the stress and inconvenience she experienced due to its handling of her claim. 
She didn’t think Creation had communicated appropriately or consistently with Miss J, and 
felt that it should have done more to ensure D carried out what it had proposed to do. 
However, the investigator thought that agreement had been reached to remedy the breach 
of contract, so she didn’t recommend Creation take any further action in this respect.
Creation accepted the investigator’s recommendation. But Miss J did not. She felt she’d 
been put to a good deal of trouble in researching and corresponding in relation to her claim, 
and that she should be consulted as to what would represent fair compensation. Miss J said 
Creation had shut down her claim by issuing a final response to her complaint, which she 
considered unethical.
Miss J was also unhappy that the £300 proposed by D would only be refunded once the 
repair was carried out. She expressed concern that if she allowed the repair, there was a risk 
that this would be unsatisfactory, leaving her back in the original position. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It’s accepted by all parties that Miss J had a claim in breach of contract, and that section 75 
applied to the transaction such that she could make that claim against Creation.
It’s also apparent that, in the course of her dealings with D, Miss J agreed – for whatever 
reason – to a repair. She might have done so because of the actions of D, or because D 
offered a sum as a price reduction. I don’t need to establish why Miss D agreed to this; her 
breach of contract claim against Creation arises from the quality of the sofa for which 
Creation provided the finance. That doesn’t make it responsible for D’s post-sale actions.
But under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (“CRA”), the fact that Miss J agreed to a repair is 
relevant to how I’d expect Creation to have approached her claim. The CRA1 says that “a 
consumer who requires or agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace 
them, or exercise the short-term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to 
repair them (unless giving the trader that time would cause significant inconvenience to the 
consumer).”
Miss J contacted Creation with her concerns on 14 February 2023, having already agreed to 
D’s proposal to repair the sofa. That agreement affected her right to reject the sofa or have it 
replaced, at least until a reasonable period of time had been provided for D to repair it. I 
don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to point this out in its email to Miss J a couple of 
days later, once it had been in contact with D.
I appreciate Miss J clearly had (and continues to have) strong feelings about the way in 
which she felt Creation was dealing with her claim. This comes across from her 
correspondence with the firm, particularly as set out in her letter to Creation dated 3 March. 
However, having considered all Miss J said in that letter, I’m not persuaded it means 
Creation dealt with her claim unfairly. It was entitled to take the approach it did to its 
investigation and the evidence it considered material to dealing with the claim.
When Miss J raised her claim, Creation told her it would look into matters and aim to provide 
her with its response within eight weeks. In practice, Creation dealt with the claim and issued 
its response well within that timescale. It set out is position on 8 March; a little more than 
three weeks after Miss J first contacted it. I can see that in the interim, Creation was 
providing Miss J with updates when she contacted it, as well as corresponding with D. I see 
no reason to criticise Creation in the approach it took to investigating Miss J’s claim, or with 
the conclusions that it reached.
However, I take Miss J’s point that the lines between her claim in breach of contract and her 
complaint about Creation’s handling of that claim became blurred. That meant many of the 
complaint points in her 3 March letter weren’t covered in Creation’s response. While I 
wouldn’t describe this as ‘unethical’, I accept Creation could have done a significantly better 
job in terms of maintaining separation of the issues, which might have alleviated at least 
some of Miss J’s concerns. I don’t find this was fundamental to the overall outcome, but it 
caused some degree of concern to Miss J such that it warrants compensation.
I’m satisfied the £100 our investigator proposed an appropriate sum in this respect. While I’m 
fully aware Miss J feels differently about this amount, it must be remembered that our role is 
to provide an objective view, including assessing any suitable level of compensation. A 
complainant’s perspective is useful, but almost inevitably subjective. As such, I hope Miss J 
will understand why it’s for us to form our own opinion as to appropriate compensation. 
Miss J can decide for herself whether she wishes to accept the proposed sum.
On a final note, I’m conscious our investigator’s assessment suggested that Creation should 
exercise some sort of oversight to ensure D carry out the repair and pay Miss J the £300. 
Miss J has also alluded to concerns over what D proposed. As I’ve already noted, the way in 
which section 75 operates doesn’t serve to make Creation responsible for D’s post-sale 
actions. I don’t find that concerns over whether D is doing what it said it would are something 
for either Creation or for our service to enforce.
1 Section 23(6) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015
As I understand it, Miss J’s consumer rights are preserved in the event the repair isn’t 
effective or isn’t carried out within a reasonable period of time – subject, of course, to D 
being permitted access to the sofa to do so. I appreciate she might have concerns over such 
a repair, but that is what the CRA provides. I see no basis on which it would be reasonable 
for me to require Creation to provide assurances other than those to which she’s already 
entitled.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle Miss J’s complaint, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
pay her £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4308865
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr O complains about a used car he acquired through a motor finance agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd. Mr O is unhappy as work that was to be completed on the 
car before he acquired it was not done, he was misled about the car having a full service 
history and he believes the car has been in an accident, which he was not informed about. 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr O acquired a used car. After paying an initial deposit of £7,000 he used 
£12,800 of finance from Creation to fund the remainder of the cost. Mr O says that when 
acquiring the car it was agreed with the dealer that certain work would be completed to the 
car. Some work has now been completed but some bodywork repairs to the valence 
paintwork and two alloy wheel refurbishments remain outstanding. 
Mr O also says that before acquiring the car he was told the car had a full service history but 
he later found out the car had only been serviced twice. Mr O has now had a service 
completed but has had to pay for that himself. While the car was with a garage it was also 
suggested that the car had been in an accident as there was believed to have been some 
work undertaken to the car’s bodywork. Mr O says that he was not told about the car having 
been in an accident. 
After some engagement between Mr O and the supplying dealer Mr O contacted Creation to 
complain about the car. Creation responded to Mr O’s complaint and explained that it had 
contacted the dealer and noted that some repairs had been completed. Those remaining 
issues were, in Creation’s view, cosmetic issues and Creation offered no further remedy to 
Mr O. 
Unhappy with Creation’s response, Mr O referred his complaint to our service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. Ultimately, they found that Mr O’s complaint should 
be upheld and Creation should provide compensation to Mr O. The investigator 
recommended Creation organise and pay for some repairs to be carried out, refund the cost 
of the service, with interest, that Mr O arranged and paid for himself and pay £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr O had been caused. 
Creation responded to the investigator’s view and said that it agrees to the compensation 
payments and will more than likely agree to the repairs. It did ask that an indication of the 
repair costs were provided and that Mr O provide quotes for the work from different 
repairers. 
Mr O did not accept the investigators conclusions or redress recommendations. Mr O 
believes that he was misled about the vehicle and would like Creation to take back the car 
and end his agreement. 
As Mr O’s complaint could not be resolved informally it has been referred to me as the final 
stage in our process. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I’m very aware that I’ve summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and I’ve done so using my own words. I’m not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, I’ve focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If there’s something I’ve not mentioned, it isn’t because I’ve ignored it. I haven’t. I’m satisfied 
I don’t need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of 
it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Mr O acquired the used car through a motor finance agreement with Creation and in this 
instance Creation was the supplier of the goods to Mr O. As supplier of the car, Creation is 
responsible for the quality of the car and can be responsible if the car was found to not have 
been of satisfactory quality. Creation would also be responsible if Mr O has not been 
supplied with something that he was promised or if he was misled. 
I understand that Mr O agreed to acquire the car and when doing so it was on the basis that 
certain issues with the car would be repaired. One of Mr O’s concerns is that the car was 
supplied and not all of the issues have been resolved. Some of the issues have now been 
remedied, such as the driver’s seat, cup holder and rattling sun roof. But the bodywork issue 
identified with the valence and the two wheel refurbishments have still not been remedied. 
I’m satisfied that Mr O agreed to acquire the car on the understanding that these issues will 
be repaired and having viewed the submissions from the parties there appears to be little 
dispute that this was agreed. As the issue remains with the car’s valence and two wheel 
refurbishments it is reasonable for Creation to meet the costs associated with repairing these  
areas of the car. Creation has highlighted that it has no repair facilities itself so has asked 
that Mr O obtain quotes for the work, if he has not already done so. I appreciate this will 
cause some further inconvenience to Mr O but it will enable the repairs to be completed now, 
assuming they have not already been done. 
Once the cost has been agreed and the repairs completed, Creation should reimburse Mr O 
for the cost of those repairs with 14 days of Mr O submitting a copy of the invoice and proof 
of payment. 
Mr O has also complained about being misled about the service history of the car. He has 
said that he was told before acquiring the car it had a full service history but has since 
realised this was not the case. The call recording between Mr O and the dealership appears 
to refer to Mr O being informed that the car had been serviced on three occasions. This may 
be slightly different to a ‘full service history’ looking at the age of the car, but I am satisfied 
Mr O was told the car had been serviced three times. 
There is no evidence that the car had in fact been serviced three times, at that time of the 
conversation or when the car was supplied. And it does appear that the car was in fact only 
serviced twice. On this basis, I am satisfied that Mr O was misled about the service history 
before acquiring the car. Where a consumer has been misled consideration needs to be 
given to whether a misrepresentation took place. A misrepresentation is essentially where a 
false or misleading statement has been made and that acted as an inducement for the 
consumer to enter into the contract. As I have already set out here, I am satisfied that there 
was a misleading statement about the service history. I have therefore considered whether 
this acted as an inducement to Mr O to acquire the vehicle. 
This was a used vehicle from a prestige brand, with a reasonable amount of mileage. I can 
therefore fully appreciate that the service history was something Mr O considered important 
and would demonstrate the car had been looked after through its previous ownership. 
Regular servicing is required to ensure the components, in particular the engine, continue to 
run smoothly and should reduce the risk of failure or the need for expensive repairs as the 
car ages. 
It is therefore very likely that Mr O was reassured by understanding the car had been 
serviced on three previous occasions. While I accept it would have been one of many factors 
Mr O considered, this is in my view likely to have acted as an inducement into Mr O 
ultimately agreeing to acquire the car. But that does not however mean that Mr O should 
necessarily be allowed to reject the car and end his agreement with Creation. 
Mr O did arrange for and pay for the service himself. If being misled about the service history 
was so significant to Mr O to have stopped him from agreeing to buy the car this would have 
been apparent in the discussions at the time with Creation. I haven’t seen sufficient evidence 
that in my view demonstrates the servicing issues was such a significant factor in Mr O’s 
decision to acquire the car that now warrants rejection. If it was so significant I think it 
unlikely Mr O would have gone to the time and cost of arranging the service himself. This 
suggests to me that getting the car serviced for a third time was sufficient to remedy the 
issue here. Otherwise, I consider it more likely Mr O would not have arranged and paid for 
his own service but persisted with a claim for rejection of the car. 
That said, Mr O has however still incurred a cost that is likely he would not have anticipated 
or needed to pay. And it is for this reason that I’m satisfied Creation should refund the cost 
Mr O incurred in servicing the car. If he has not done so already, Mr O should provide 
Creation with an invoice showing the work completed and proof of payment so Creation can 
reimburse him. I should add for clarity that Creation would only be responsible for the 
general cost of the service and not any other more general wear and tear repairs that may 
have also been carried out at the same time.
Mr O says he has also now been told that the car was involved in an accident and this he 
believes is evidenced by some bodywork repairs and panelling misalignment. Mr O believes 
he was misled by the supplying dealership and says he would not have agreed to acquire 
the car had he known it had been involved in an accident. 
I accept that it is entirely possible the car has been involved in an accident and has therefore 
had some repairs to the bodywork. There is no supporting evidence of when any accident or 
repairs took place or therefore to the severity of any potential prior damage. The car was 
aged and had travelled over 60,000 miles when Mr O acquired the car and it is not 
uncommon for a car of this age and mileage to have been involved in one or perhaps more 
accidents. 
Mr O did not raise the issue of the car possibly being in an accident until some time after he 
had the car and it had been seen by a professional body repair firm. This suggests to me 
that the issues with the bodywork are not actually that significant or noticeable, unless 
closely scrutinised. Mr O presumably inspected the vehicle in some detail when he agreed to 
acquire the car. As already mentioned, issues were identified presumably when Mr O was 
inspecting the car and repairs agreed for those parts. The remaining repairs referred to 
above relate to cosmetic issues and again suggest to me that Mr O would have closely 
inspected the bodywork before agreeing the purchase. The absence of these issues being 
identified at the time of inspection again supports my view that any other potential repairs to 
the bodywork were completed well and not actually noticeable to the average consumer. 
I do not therefore consider that there are any grounds to require Creation to be responsible 
for any bodywork repairs or panel realignments, other than that mentioned above relating to 
the valence and wheels. I have not seen anything that indicates the potential prior repairs 
were not carried out to a reasonable standard or that the car is unsafe. And I haven’t seen 
anything to indicate that Mr O was misled about any potential crash or damage that may 
have occurred before purchase, as I don’t believe that any actual discussions took place 
about this. Having carefully considered all of these factors, I do not consider there to be 
grounds to require Creation to now take back the car or end the agreement with Mr O. 
Finally, I also understand Mr O had an engine oil service completed on the car. This in my 
view would be considered a more general wear and tear requirement and something one 
would expect with a car of this age and mileage. It is not in my view something that Creation 
should be responsible for. 
I do consider that Mr O has suffered some trouble and upset as a result of being supplied 
with the car which did not have the agreed repairs completed, or the service history he was 
told. Mr O has had to arrange and pay for the car’s service and will incur further 
inconvenience as a result of arranging the final repairs. I appreciate Mr O will be unhappy 
with many other aspects of the car buying experience with the supplying dealer, but I can 
only make an award for the things that Creation is ultimately responsible for. Having 
considered the circumstances of this complaint Creation should make an additional payment 
of £200 to Mr O for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused.
I appreciate Mr O will likely remain unhappy with the decision I have reached here but this 
decision does represent the last stage in our process. Mr O is free to accept the decision, as 
set out here, and it will be legally binding on Creation. Should Mr O however wish to 
continue with his dispute against Creation, he will need to do so through other means. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr O’s complaint against Creation and require Creation to 
settle the complaint in accordance with my instructions above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4311854
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P complains about the interest charged to his account by Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd.
What happened
Mr P made a balance transfer of £875 to his Creation credit card on 20 February 2023 to 
take advantage of a 0% interest offer. The balance transfer attracted a handling fee of 
3.99%.
Creation issued a statement on 21 March 2023 which advised that the required minimum 
payment was due on 10 April 2023. The statement showed an outstanding balance of 
£909.91.
On 24 March 2023 Mr P made a payment of £9.91.
On 27 March 2023 Mr P used the card to purchase items totalling £997. On 17 April 2023 Mr 
P made a payment of £997.
Creation applied the payment of £997 to clear the outstanding balance transfer. It then 
applied interest to the account balance.
Mr P complained to Creation. He said that when he made the payment of £997 on 17 April 
2023, he intended this to be applied to clear the purchase dated 27 March 2023 and not the 
balance transfer amount.
In response, Creation said the purchase balance would be due on the following months 
statement and that any payments made prior to the statement date were applied towards the 
statement balance due. Creation said the interest applied to the account had been correctly 
charged.
Mr P remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that although Creations terms and 
conditions permitted it to allocate the payment in the way it had done, she thought that Mr 
P’s intention to pay off the purchase balance was clear. The investigator said it was fair and 
reasonable to ask Creation to rework the account and apply the payment of £997 made on 
17 April 2023 to the purchase balance.
Creation didn’t agree. It said that the terms and conditions of the account made it clear that if 
the card was used to make purchases, interest would be charged on these from the day of 
purchase unless the whole balance (including the balance transfer) was cleared. Creation 
said the interest had been charged in line with the terms and conditions.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I’ve reviewed the terms and conditions which Mr P agreed to when he opened the account. 
These say that:
“If you take advantage of this offer you will not be charged interest on the balance transfer. If 
you use your card to make purchases, you will be charged interest on these from the day of 
purchase unless you clear the full balance including the balance transfer”
I understand that having used the card to make a purchase, Mr P made a payment which he 
interned to clear the purchase amount.
Creation applied the payment to clear the statement balance. It says that any payments are 
automatically applied to cleat the statement balance due.
Based on what I’ve seen, I’m unable to say that Creation has made an error, because it has 
charged interest on the purchase balance in line with the terms and conditions.
However, the only reason Mr P has been charged interest is because he paid the £997 
before the next statement had been issued. If Mr P had waited for the next statement to be 
issued – which was only 4 days away – then the payment of £997 would have been applied 
to the purchase balance, because it was the purchase balance which attracted the highest 
interest rate.
In the circumstances and given that Creation acknowledged that it was Mr P’s intention to 
pay the purchase balance, and taking into account the fair and reasonable remit of this 
service, I think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Creation to treat the payment of £997 
as if it had been made a few days later and rework the account so as to apply the payment 
to the purchase balance.
Putting things right
Creation should rework the account and apply the £997 payment to the purchase balance 
and refund any interest calculated up to the date when the account was settled.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must take 
the steps I’ve set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4313904
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who I’ll call Creation, shouldn’t have 
reduced his credit limit. He says that a payment he made to the wrong agreement caused 
that. He’s also upset that they haven’t clarified his account balance and that he’s received 
poor customer service from them when they’ve been reviewing his complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator’s view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
It is for Creation to decide how much credit they offer to a consumer. The terms of Mr J’s 
running credit account allowed them to vary that credit limit and explained:
“We may change your credit limit from time to time depending on our assessment of your 
account and financial circumstances…”
So, it wouldn’t be fair of me to suggest Creation’s decision to reduce Mr J’s credit limit was 
unreasonable, and I don’t. 
This Service can’t usually consider the merits of new complaints if they haven’t been made 
to the business first. On this occasion, I can see that Creation has engaged with other 
aspects of Mr J’s complaint that he’s raised since he contacted this Service. Given the age 
of the complaint and the fact Mr J has been kept waiting by Creation already, it seems to me 
to be in everyone’s interest if I now deal with everything Mr J has raised.
I don’t think Creation have been able to adequately explain what is still owed and what has 
been paid on the account so that Mr J can understand the situation. They should, therefore, 
do that, and in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr J has been caused as a 
result of that lack of clarity they should pay him £150 compensation.
Creation may have reported adverse information to Mr J’s credit file in relation to this issue. 
They’re obliged to report Mr J’s performance on his account accurately. If, having supplied 
Mr J with a clear picture of the incomings, outgoings, and balance of his account, it 
transpires there were errors in their reporting, they should amend Mr J’s credit file 
accordingly.
Putting things right
I’m asking Creation to put things right in the way I’ve set out above and have detailed below.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and tell Creation 
Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Provide a detailed statement to Mr J showing incoming and outgoing transactions 
and the balance they say is currently on the account. 

Pay Mr J £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience they’ve 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4316615
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd wasn’t of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car and 
have his costs refunded.
What happened
Mr D acquired a used vehicle through a hire purchase agreement with Creation. The 
agreement was entered into in August 2022 and the car delivered on 30 August. Mr D also 
bought a two-year warranty. 
Within a few days of using the vehicle, the engine management light (EML) came on. Mr D 
contacted the dealer and was told to take the vehicle for repair and that the warranty would 
cover the cost. On 11 November, Mr D took the vehicle for repair. He paid for the diagnostics 
report which identified issues with the under bonnet sensor and exhaust system. He spoke 
to the dealer and was told the repair cost would be covered. He was then told he would need 
to pay for the repair and claim the cost back. Mr D says that although he paid for the repairs 
the issues with the vehicle continued. He sent the repair invoices to the warranty company, 
but it said the selling dealer would need to pay for the work. Mr D raised his complaint with 
Creation and contacted the selling dealer, but the issue wasn’t resolved. 
Mr D says he has had to spend time chasing Creation and each time he had to start the 
process over and resend invoices. He says the car can’t be used as it is unreliable.
Creation issued a final response letter in January 2023. It said that Mr D contacted it on 16 
December in regard to his claim about the vehicle being faulty. It contacted the broker which 
said the dealer had agreed to carry out the repair under warranty, but Mr D had requested 
an additional repair which wasn’t covered by warranty. It said if Mr D wished to accept the 
repair agreed by the dealer under the warranty, he would need to contact it directly.
Mr D said he hadn’t requested an additional repair and that the oil and filter change was 
required for the DPF regeneration needed after the repair. Mr D referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought the evidence showed the vehicle wasn’t 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Mr D had allowed an opportunity for the vehicle 
to be repaired but as this hadn’t resolved the issues our investigator thought it fair he was 
now allowed to reject the vehicle. He also noted the consequential losses Mr D had incurred 
and said these should be refunded.
Mr D accepted our investigator’s view but as Creation didn’t reply, this case has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D acquired a used vehicle through a hire purchase agreement with Creation. Under the 
regulations Creation can, in certain circumstances, be held liable if the car wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out that 
goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory. In this case relevant factors to be taken into 
account include the vehicle’s age, mileage and price. At the time of acquisition, the vehicle 
was six years old, had been driven around 25,800 miles and cost over £30,000.
Mr D acquired a used vehicle and so it is reasonable to expect it would have suffered some 
wear and tear. However, part of the vehicle being of satisfactory quality is that it is 
sufficiently durable. Mr D reported the issue with the car within two weeks (and he has noted 
that the vehicle was delivered the day before he went away for a week, so the vehicle had 
only been driven for a week). 
Mr D contacted the dealer on 12 September to report the EML being on and the car 
vibrating. A diagnostic report was completed on 11 November, which recorded urgent issues 
with the vehicle. This shows that the car had faults that were confirmed on 11 November and 
as Mr D raised these on 12 September, I find it reasonable to accept that the faults were 
present at supply and so I find that the vehicle wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
When a vehicle is found not to be of satisfactory quality at supply there are different 
remedies that can be actioned. In this case Mr D took the vehicle to be repaired. Mr D has 
provided copies of two invoices. The first from 11 November 2022 which includes the cost of 
diagnostics and a vehicle check. The second invoice is from 17 January 2023 when the 
repair to the DPF was undertaken. Mr D says that he paid the invoice for the DPF repair and 
expected to be able to claim this back but was only offered a contribution from the warranty 
company. Having considered the short time that Mr D had the vehicle before any issues 
arose and the nature of the repair work undertaken, I find it reasonable that Mr D would be 
refunded all payments that he made for the diagnostics and DPF repair work.
While Mr D had accepted repair as a remedy to the vehicle not being of satisfactory quality, 
he then reported that issues persisted after the repair. Under the CRA, if the repair isn’t 
successful the consumer has a final right to reject. As Mr D allowed the business the 
opportunity to repair the vehicle and this hasn’t fully resolved the issues, I find it fair that he 
is now allowed to reject the car and have his finance agreement ended with no further 
liability.
As well as the repair costs that Mr D has incurred which I have already explained should be 
reimbursed, Mr D has incurred the cost of transferring his personal numberplate. While I find 
the transfer from Mr D’s previous vehicle was a cost Mr D would always have incurred, I 
agree with our investigator that the cost of having to transfer the number plate again to a 
new vehicle is a consequential loss that should be reimbursed.
Mr D has had some use of the vehicle, but I can understand that his use has been impaired 
as he has noted the car isn’t reliable. In June 2023, Mr D showed the vehicle’s mileage was 
around 30,600 which suggests he had driven the vehicle around 5,000 miles in 10 months. 
Given this I agree with our investigator’s recommendation that Mr D be refunded 50% of his 
monthly repayments. I also agree with our investigator’s recommendation that Mr D be paid 
£200 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused by being provided with a 
vehicle that wasn’t of satisfactory quality and which he has needed to facilitate diagnostics 
and repairs on.
In conclusion, I find that the vehicle Mr D acquired in August 2022, wasn’t of satisfactory 
quality at supply. While repairs were undertaken, as these weren’t successful, Mr D should 
now be allowed to reject the vehicle and be refunded the repair costs and his consequential 
losses.
Putting things right
Creation should:
1.
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
2.
Refund the net deposit Mr D paid and delivery charge;
3.
To the extent refunds haven’t already been provided, Creation should refund Mr D 
the following costs his incurred (Mr D has provided copies of the invoices and 
receipts):
a.
Invoice 1 dated 11 November 2022 – £135.73 
b.
Invoice 2 dated 17 January 2023 - £829.93
c.
Cost of transferring personalised number plate – £80 
4.
Refund 50% of all finance instalments that have been paid in respect of the loss of 
use and lack of enjoyment Mr D has experienced
5.
Pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused
Creation should add 8% simple interest per year to items 2, 3 and 4 from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4319675
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who I’ll call Creation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs F acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
There’s no dispute that a fault was identified with the oxygen sensor on this car very shortly 
after Mrs F took receipt of it. The car was repaired, but Mrs F says the fault came back only 
a couple of weeks later and only about a month after she’d taken receipt of the car.
The relevant legislation says that if a repair fails the goods may be rejected. But there needs 
to be evidence the repair has failed or that there was another problem, present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mrs F.
I don’t think there is sufficient evidence that the repair failed or that there was a fault with the 
car on 13 March 2023 when Mrs F had to call for assistance.
The report provided at that time explained that the customer had reported the Engine 
Management Light was on and there was an erratic idle at times. The engineer noted that 
the fuel was low and asked Mrs F to refuel. He reset the throttle idle control and cleared fault 
codes that Mrs F says were the same ones that had appeared during the initial fault.
The report also explained that “Diagnostic testing may be limited in a breakdown type 
situation. Please ensure symptoms/suggested faults are confirmed by your chosen repairer 
before any suggested work is started.”
I’m not persuaded that I have sufficient evidence there was a fault with the car as I’ve seen 
no subsequent report to confirm there were any faults with the car. I’m not persuaded that 
the mere presence of fault codes is demonstrative of a fault as I don’t know, for instance, 
whether those faults were historic.
Unfortunately, as Mrs F has now sold the car it isn’t practical to obtain a more detailed report 
to demonstrate the car was still experiencing the original fault or that there was a fault with it 
that was likely to have been present, or developing, at the point of supply, and that made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality.
I’m not therefore asking Creation to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4323981
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr P complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”) has treated him unfairly in 
relation to a loan he took out with it.
What happened
I set out below Mr P’s version of events and also Creation’s version of those same events
Mr P’s version of events
In February 2023 Mr P purchased an electrical item online from a third party retailer I will 
refer to as “J”. Mr P paid for the electrical item using a loan provided by Creation. 
The item was meant to be delivered to Mr P and it was meant to be signed for. However, a 
third party delivery company that I will refer to as “D” left the item on the doorstep of his 
home, which is at the side of the property. Therefore the parcel was left in full view of the 
public footpath which runs past the house. Mr P thinks that as a result the parcel was stolen. 
Mr P considers that because the item was not delivered to him in accordance with the 
express instructions he gave to J and in accordance with terms implied by law into the 
contract, then there has been a breach of contract. 
Further, under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“Section 75”) Mr P thinks that 
he has a like claim against Creation as he does against J for these breaches of contract. Mr 
P considers that due to these breaches of contract Creation can no longer pursue him for the 
balance of the loan which he wants cancelled in any event.
Creation’s version of events
Creation says it was not a condition of the contract between Mr P and J that Mr P had to sign 
for the delivery. Rather, Mr P had agreed that the goods could be left unattended at his 
home. In particular, as part of the contract with J, Mr P designated a safe place for the 
delivery. Initially Creation told us that this safe place was the doorstep behind the side gate 
to the rear of Mr P’s home. D provided J with a photo which J sent to Creation. All three said 
at first that the photo showed the door at the rear of Mr P’s property. 
Mr P did not answer the door when the delivery driver knocked. Therefore the delivery driver 
called Mr P, but Mr P did not reply to the call either. Therefore the delivery driver left Mr P a 
voicemail. Moreover, on that same day, Mr P was told of this successful delivery by text and 
by email. J told Creation it was only the day after the delivery that Mr P complained.
It followed that from Creation’s perspective there had been no breach of contract. Therefore 
it declined to uphold Mr P’s claim under Section 75.
What happened once the complaint came to us
Dissatisfied, Mr P complained to our service.
Once his complaint was with us Mr P responded to say that he had never nominated a safe 
place for delivery. And in any event D did not leave the parcel at the rear of the property, 
which is accessed by a gate, rather the photo shows the door at the side of the property. He 
did not get a voicemail from the delivery driver, but he did get a text.  
Further, Mr P was at work at the time D said it had delivered the parcel. At first he thought 
the parcel might have been delivered to a neighbour. It was only the next day that he 
managed to speak to all the neighbours and found that none of them said they’d taken 
delivery of the parcel for him. 
Mr P sent us photos showing that the spot where D left the parcel was where Mr P said it 
was left, which was the side door not the rear door. There is no gate protecting the side 
door. There is a gate protecting the rear door.
Creation also provided further information, it now said, Mr P had chosen a safe space option, 
this was his “rear porch”, and this was where the parcel was delivered. Mr P had set this 
preference in the past in relation to previous deliveries. But it had taken this as permission to 
also deliver this parcel too, to that safe space and it was correct to do so (according to it). 
Creation added:
“On previous emails it states that [D] mentioned or had instructions for the parcel to be left 
on the back gate or to be handed on [sic] customer’s hands, there’s no instruction from the 
consumer for that to be the case. The parcel hasn’t been left at the back of the property it 
was delivered on the rear porch, rear side door of the property.
There was no signature required on delivery instructions if the customer wished for the 
parcel to be left on the back gate this should have been specifically requested at point of 
delivery.
We are not upholding the customer’s claim, we acknowledge this is not the customer’s 
desired outcome. [D] has followed the customer’s instructions.”
One of our investigators looked into Mr P’s complaint. Our investigator recommended that 
Mr P’s complaint be upheld. The redress he recommended was:
Creation should:

Take steps to end the contract and ensure that there is no further liability for Mr P 
moving forward.

Refund any payments made by Mr P.

Contact the credit reference agencies and remove all reference to the contract, so 
that it never existed; for clarity that means that all adverse information is removed 
which will put Mr P back in the position he was in before the order was first placed in 
February 2023.

Pay Mr P £100 for the distress and inconvenience that he’s experienced here.
Mr P accepted our investigator’s recommendation, Creation did not. It outlined its reasons 
for its stance which I’ve set out below:
“We have received confirmation from [J], they have advised that [D] will not investigate this 
matter any further as they consider this claim as closed.
Their position that the delivery was fully compliant remains the same.” 
Creation indicated that it had adopted J and D’s position as its own. It told us that it had 
nothing further to add.
As Creation had rejected our investigator’s recommendation and Mr P still wanted to 
proceed with his complaint, I was asked to take a fresh look at it.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P tells us it was an express term of his contract with J that he must sign for the delivery of 
the goods. Further, Mr P tells us that it was an implied term of his contract with J that the 
goods should have been delivered into his personal possession. Mr P also indicates that 
under the law it was also an implied term of his contract that the risk in the goods remained 
with J until they were delivered to him.
The parties seem to agree about what terms were implied. They merely disagree about 
whether the terms were breached. So I’ll look at this part of the complaint first.
Mr P purchased goods using finance provided by Creation. Due to the type of finance that 
was used Mr P has the protection offered by Section 75. 
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr P has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract against the supplier he can also bring a like claim against Creation. 
Mr P is a consumer who purchased the goods from J who is a trader, the law implies certain 
terms into a contract of sale in these circumstances. In particular, the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (“CRA 2015”) implies certain terms into the contract regarding delivery of goods, it also 
defines delivery and talks about where risk resides until the goods come into the physical 
possession of the consumer. Specifically, the CRA 2015 says:
“28 Delivery of goods
(1)  This section applies to any sales contract.
(2)  Unless the trader and the consumer have agreed otherwise, the contract is to be treated 
as including a term that the trader must deliver the goods to the consumer.”
“delivery” means voluntary transfer of possession from one person to another”
Moreover, the CRA makes it clear that the goods remain at the trader’s risk until they come 
into the physical possession of the consumer, or a person identified by the consumer to take 
possession of the goods.
Mr P and Creation disagree about whether the goods were delivered to him. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
During the course of the complaint, Creation has put forward a number of versions of the 
same events. First it told us that Mr P had contracted with J that it did not need to deliver the 
goods to him in person and get a signature, rather it could leave the goods in a safe space. 
But Creation has not sent any further information to show this happened.
Later and seemingly in contradiction to its first version of events, Creation said, in relation to 
previous deliveries Mr P had indicated a safe space where goods could be left, and this is 
the safe space that D used. This new stance suggests that Mr P did not specifically indicate 
a safe space for this individual delivery. Rather Creation suggests that J and D were entitled 
to assume, that as he’d agreed to use a safe space in the past he could be taken to have 
agreed to the use of this safe space in this instance too.
I’m not persuaded that Mr P did state any such preference in relation to his contract with J. I 
think if Mr P had told J this was what he wanted there would be an audit trail to show this. 
But I note that no such information such as Mr P’s written instruction has been produced. 
Moreover, even if Mr P had previously indicated that he had a safe space for deliveries in the 
past, I can’t see how that would be relevant to this delivery. In other words, I don’t see how 
expressing a preference in the past for unrelated deliveries means that Mr P entered into a 
binding everlasting agreement with J that it could deliver the goods to the safe space. I note 
also in any event Creation has not shown evidence to support the assertion that Mr P had 
nominated a safe space in the past.
Then Creation told us that the safe space was to the rear of Mr P’s property behind the gate. 
But it sent us a photo of where the goods were left. This photo indicates the parcel was left 
at the side door not the rear door. Later, Creation then changed its stance to say the side 
door was the safe space and that is where the goods were left.
The inconsistencies in Creation’s versions of events about what was agreed regarding 
delivery and where the goods were actually left, has impacted negatively on the weight I feel 
able to give to this information. 
Moreover, even if I accepted, which I don’t, that Mr P had nominated a safe space before 
and in relation to this contract too, I find it unlikely that Mr P would have agreed that the 
doorstep of the side door was that safe space. I say this because I’m satisfied that the 
doorstep of the side door was visible from the public highway. Moreover, the goods were 
expensive so I doubt that Mr P would have agreed to the goods being left unattended in 
such an exposed location. 
I can see that in some instances leaving a parcel unattended at an address might constitute 
delivery for the purposes of the CRA 2015, even where no safe space was indicated. 
Although, I don’t think if this is what happened here, it would constitute delivery in the very 
particular circumstances of this complaint. But that is not the argument that is being put here. 
Instead Creation tells us the parcel was delivered because D and therefore by extension J 
and Creation complied with Mr P’s instructions which were a term of the contract with J. And 
I’ve already set out above why I don’t find that likely.
Further, I am not persuaded that on balance the parcel was left at all, given all of the 
inconsistencies in the evidence provided by Creation.
I don’t find it significant that Mr P did not complain to J until the day after D said it delivered 
the parcel. I say this because I’m persuaded by what Mr P says about this.
For all of these reasons I don’t agree that the goods were delivered to Mr P.  It follows I’m 
satisfied that there was a breach of contract, and it is fair and reasonable therefore to say 
that Mr P must be treated as if he never entered into his contract.
I don’t need to look at whether I think it was an express term of the contract that Mr P had to 
sign for the delivery. I say this now because even if I found that it was, the remedy I could 
order would be the same I’ll order because I think the implied contractual terms were 
breached. I’ve not seen the contract of sale. Neither has Creation commented on this point 
beyond saying it was not an express term of the contract without explaining why. But given 
the expense of the goods and the proximity of the side entrance (which seems to be the 
main entrance) to a public highway, if I had to make a finding about this, I would find it more 
likely than not it was an express term of the contract that the delivery had to be signed for. 
I’d also find this express term had been breached.
I recognise that the inconsistent information has been provided by J and D. Creation 
seemingly has just acted as a post-box without interrogating the logic of the arguments J and 
D put forward. It is fair and reasonable though to expect more of Creation here when it was 
in the course of looking at the underlying financial service it provided. I think its actions have 
caused Mr P unnecessary distress and inconvenience for which £100 is an appropriate 
award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:

Cancel the finance agreement with nothing at all owed by Mr P under this agreement.

Refund any payments Mr P has made towards the finance agreement. It must add 
interest to those payments at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement.

Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any information that it or its agents have 
asked to be registered on Mr P’s credit file about the agreement. For the purposes of 
Mr P’s credit file it must appear as if he never entered into this agreement.

Pay Mr P £100 for distress and inconvenience.
It must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P accepts my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £100 from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest I’ve mentioned 
above, it must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr P can reclaim the 
tax if he is able to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4329337
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a laptop he bought using a running account credit 
agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”). 
What happened
Mr D bought a laptop in December 2019 using a running account credit agreement with 
Creation. The laptop cost £839.
Mr D tells us a fault occurred with the laptop in January 2023, so he took it back to the store 
he bought it from. Mr D says the store tried to get the laptop working again but couldn’t, so 
they took it in for repairs. He then received a call saying the repairs could cost around £500 
to £600. Mr D says he didn’t want to accept this and explained that the laptop had only been 
used for a few years. The supplier subsequently offered Mr D a partial refund of £407 taking 
into account that he’d been able to use the laptop for three years. But Mr D remained 
unhappy. 
As the supplier didn’t resolve things for Mr D, he contacted Creation to complain. He said to 
Creation that his laptop stopped working due to a broken SSD card which he believed was a 
manufacturing fault. Creation rejected the claim. They said the supplier told them the laptop 
was no longer in warranty, so the supplier was unable to repair the laptop free of charge, 
and that Mr D needed to fund the repair cost. 
Mr D wasn’t happy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into things but 
didn’t think there was sufficient evidence to uphold the complaint. He noted the supplier had 
made an offer of £407 to Mr D which he felt was fair taking use and depreciation into 
account. And he said that most experts estimated a laptop’s lifespan to be three to five years 
and that Mr D had no problems with the laptop until three years had passed. 
Mr D didn’t agree. He said the supplier had confirmed the laptop had a manufacturing fault 
and said other consumers had experienced the same issue with this make and model.
As Mr D’s complaint couldn’t be resolved, it’s been passed to me for a decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that I’ve summarised the events of the complaint. I don’t intend any
discourtesy by this – it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr D
and Creation that I’ve reviewed everything on file. And if I don’t comment on something, it’s
not because I haven’t considered it. It’s because I’ve concentrated on what I think are the
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr D used a regulated running account credit agreement to purchase the laptop. Our
service can consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements.
I’ve taken into account the relevant law which in this case is Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”). This makes Creation responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation under certain conditions.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA says 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory – taking into account the description of the goods, the price or other
consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances.
Section 9(3) of the CRA says:
“The quality of goods includes their state and condition; and the following aspects
(among others) are in appropriate cases aspects of the quality of goods—
(a) fitness for all the purposes for which goods of that kind are usually
supplied;
(b) appearance and finish;
(c) freedom from minor defects;
(d) safety;
(e) durability.”
I understand the laptop was new when Mr D bought it. So, it should have been free from 
even minor defects and been durable. The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to 
the contract at any time within the period of six months beginning with the day on which the
goods were delivered to the consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day
unless it’s established the goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the
application is incompatible with the nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to
the contract. 
I believe Mr D used the laptop for three years without any issues. So, I’d need to see 
sufficient evidence from Mr D to show the laptop wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was 
sold to him to say there’d been a breach of contract.
I’ve considered the evidence supplied relating to the problem with the laptop. On the one 
hand, Mr D said this was an issue with the SSD card, and after researching this, found out 
that this was widespread on the particular model he’d bought. But on the other hand, the 
repair centre said the laptop would have become faulty a lot sooner had there been a 
manufacturing defect. 
 
As the fault happened three years after purchase, I’d like to have had much
more certainty the fault was something that made the laptop of unsatisfactory quality when
Mr D bought it. There’s a variety of things that can go wrong with electrical goods. In my 
view, there’s insufficient evidence to show the problem with Mr D’s laptop was present or 
developing at the point of sale. 
While I can understand why Mr D was disappointed, given the time taken for the fault to 
manifest, I’ve not seen enough to show the laptop wasn’t durable.
Therefore, while I sympathise with Mr D, I don’t find there’s sufficient evidence of a
breach of contract for which Creation would be liable under section 75. So, I don’t have the
grounds to direct Creation to reimburse Mr D for what went wrong. I note that our 
investigator said in his view that the supplier should pay Mr D the £407 they offered him. 
However, this complaint is against Creation, not the supplier. So, I have no powers to direct 
the supplier to pay Mr D the money. If Mr D still wishes to accept the supplier’s offer, he 
should contact them directly. I’d like to apologise to Mr D for the confusion about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman

------------------------------
 
 

--------------------------
DRN-4329537
--------------------------
 
 
 
The complaint 
 
Mr S complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) responded to 
claims he’d made in relation to misrepresentation, breach of contract, and an alleged unfair 
relationship taking into account section 140A (“s140A”) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the “CCA”). Mr S’s claims were in relation to solar panels that he had bought and were paid 
for through a loan with Creation.  
Mr S is represented in his complaint by a third party. 
What happened 
In February 2013 Mr S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation. The loan was 
for a solar panel system which cost £11,895. The loan was to be repaid by two payments of 
£228.77 and regular instalments of £153.77 over the 120 month term. Although the amount 
borrowed was £11,895, with interest and charges the total amount repayable under the loan 
was £18,502.40.  
Mr S complains that the solar panel system was missold. More specifically, Mr S’s 
representative has said ‘…the sales representative made a number of misrepresentations to 
our client, the main misrepresentation which induced our client to enter into the contract was 
that the system was ‘self-funding’. Our client was advised that the electricity which was 
generated by the system would lead to them being paid the feed-in tariff which would 
generate an income under the government backed scheme. Our client was also told that 
they would make significant savings on their electricity bills. The sales representative was 
adamant that the financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system 
which would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.’   
Creation responded to Mr S’s claim and explained why in its view that Mr S’s claim had been 
submitted too late. Mr S remained unhappy and his representative brought his complaint to 
our service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. They found that Mr S’s 
claim had not been submitted too late, but they had seen insufficient evidence to determine 
Mr S had been missled about the benefits of the solar panel system. They did not therefore 
consider the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr S’s representative did not accept the investigator’s findings and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to an ombudsman to consider. The case was passed to a different investigator, 
who asked Mr S’s representative for some further information. The representative was asked 
to contact Mr S and for Mr S to explain in his own words why he had decided to take out the 
solar panels system and what he was told about the panels and costs by the sales 
representative.  
Mr S’s representative asked for more time to respond but despite further time being allowed, 
more than two months has now passed and we have not received anything further. When 
allowing more time to respond, the investigator explained that no further time would be 
granted if we had not received a response by the deadline. As no response was received, 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider as the final stage in our process.  
 
 
What I’ve decided – and why 
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. Mr S 
has complained about the misrepresentations made by the solar panels supplier have 
created an unfair relationship, as set out in s.140A CCA.  
Mr S is able to make a complaint about an unfair relationship between himself and Creation 
per s.140A. The event complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) is Creation’s 
participation, for so long as the credit relationship continued, in an allegedly unfair 
relationship with him. 
This accords with the court’s approach to assessing unfair relationships – the assessment is 
performed as at the date when the credit relationship ended: Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland 
plc [2023] UKSC 34. S.140A doesn’t impose a liability to pay a sum of money in the same 
way as s.75. Rather, it sets out the basis for treating relationships between creditors and 
debtors as unfair. Under s.140A a court can find a debtor-creditor relationship is unfair, 
because of the terms of the credit agreement and any related agreement, how the creditor 
exercised or enforced their rights under these agreements, and anything done or not done 
by the supplier on the creditor’s behalf before or after the making of a credit agreement or 
any related agreement. 
A court must make its determination under s.140A with regard to all matters it thinks 
relevant, including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor. The 
High Court’s judgment in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB established that determining 
whether the relationship complained of was unfair has to be made “having regard to the 
entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of making the 
determination”. The time for making determination in the case of an existing relationship is 
the date of trial, if the credit relationship is still alive at trial, or otherwise the date when the 
credit relationship ended. 
This judgment has recently been approved by the Supreme Court in Smith v Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (‘Smith’). Throughout the period of the credit agreement, a 
creditor should conduct its relationship with the borrower fairly, including by taking corrective 
measures. In particular, the creditor should take the steps which it would be reasonable to 
expect it to take in the interest of fairness to reverse the consequences of unfairness, so that 
the relationship can no longer be regarded as unfair: see Smith at [27]-[29] and [66]. 
Whether that has, or has not, been done by the creditor is a consideration in whether such 
an unfair relationship was in existence for the purposes of s.140A when the relationship 
ended. In other words, determining whether there is or was an unfair credit relationship isn’t 
just a question of deciding whether a credit relationship was unfair when it started. The 
question is whether it was still unfair when it ended; or, if the relationship is still ongoing, 
whether it is still unfair at the time of considering its fairness. 
That requires paying regard to the whole relationship and matters relevant to it right up to 
that point, including the extent to which the creditor has fulfilled its responsibility to correct 
unfairness in the relationship. In Mr S’s case the relationship had finished approximately one 
month before the claim was submitted to Creation and three months before complaining to 
our service. Mr S has six years in which to bring a complaint from the event complained of 
and as Mr S was complaining about the unfair relationship with Creation which had only just 
 
 
ended, the complaint was made within the six year time period.  
Therefore, taking into account DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a), I am satisfied it has been brought in time. I 
am otherwise satisfied the complaint is within the ombudsman service’s jurisdiction to 
consider and it’s not necessary to consider whether Mr S’s complaint has been brought in 
time for the purposes of the alternative three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by the solar panels 
supplier can be considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. In 
Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said a 
court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of 
the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything done (or 
not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. 
A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. Section 56 (“s.56”) of the CCA has the effect of deeming 
the solar panels supplier to be the agent of Creation in any antecedent negotiations. Taking 
this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for me to 
consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those negotiations and 
arrangements by the solar panels supplier for which Creation was responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s.140A.  
What happened?  
Mr S’s representative has set out that Mr S was effectively told the benefits of the solar 
panels system would cover the cost of the loan with Creation and the system would 
therefore be self funding. Our service asked that Mr S provide some further details about 
why he decided to take out the solar panel system and what he was told about the costs and 
benefits of the system. Despite allowing considerable time for a response, nothing has been 
submitted to our service and we have no direct submissions from Mr S about exactly what 
happened in this instance when taking out the solar panels system and loan with Creation.  
I appreciate some time has now passed since the system was sold to him and some of the 
finer details may not be as clear now because of the passage of time. But Mr S’s 
representative was clear enough about Mr S being misled to submit the complaint and it 
would not therefore be unreasonable to expect Mr S to provide some further clarification 
about what happened in his specific circumstances.  
I have considered the documentation that has been submitted in this case and this includes 
a number of documents from the time of the sale. The Creation fixed sum loan agreement 
sets out what the cost of the loan will be each month in repayments, along with the overall 
cost of the loan. There is a document, dated 7 February 2013, from the supplier that refers to 
the £11,895 cost of the system and I note this makes no reference to the additional costs 
through interest and charges on the loan Mr S will need to pay to Creation. But I have not 
been presented with anything that refers to the likely savings or benefits the solar panels 
system was expected to produce.  
The documentary evidence in this case is somewhat limited and Mr S has not provided a 
response to our request for further clarification about what he was told at the time of the 
sale. I have noted what Mr S’s representative has said about other complaints with our 
service involving the same supplier being upheld, but I am required to consider the specific 
 
 
circumstance of this complaint and what went on in Mr S’s case.  
Overall, I’ve not seen enough in this particular case to persuade me on the balance of 
probabilities that Mr S was told the benefits of the solar panels would have paid for the loan 
repayments over the course of the loan. It therefore seems unlikely to me that Mr S’s 
relationship with Creation is unfair as a result of a misrepresentation or contractual promise 
made by the solar panels supplier to Mr S when the solar panels were sold to him. And it is 
ultimately for these reasons that I do not consider Mr S’s complaint against Creation should 
be upheld.  
My final decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S’s complaint against Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2025. 
  
 
Mark Hollands 
Ombudsman 
 

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4334600
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms F has complained about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to a 
claim she made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the ‘CCA’) 
and in relation to allegations of an unfair relationship taking in to account Section 140.A 
(‘s.140A’) of the CCA.
Ms F has been represented in bringing her complaint but, to keep things simple, I’ll refer to
Ms F throughout.
What happened
On 27 May 2015, Ms F bought a solar panel system (‘the system’) from a company I’ll call 
“M” using a 10-year fixed sum loan from Creation. The credit agreement was signed on 27 
May 2015. Ms F paid a deposit of £1,000 and the loan amount was for £4,268 with the 
total amount payable under the agreement including the deposit, interest and fees being 
roughly £7830. The loan was due to be paid back with 120 monthly repayments of £56.91. 
I understand the loan is still running.
Ms F complained to Creation, she said that she was told by M that the ‘feed in tariff’ (‘FIT’) 
payments and the savings she would make would cover the cost of the loan repayments. 
However, that hasn’t happened, and she’s suffered a financial loss. 
Creation told us they received a complaint from Ms F on 16 September 2021. Creation 
issued a final response letter dated 11 November 2021. Creation considered Ms F had 
brought her claim more than six years after the cause of action occurred under the FCA’s 
rules on dispute resolution and later Creation said the complaint was too late under the 
Limitation Act (‘LA’). Ms F brought her complaint to this service on 18 November 2021 as 
she was unhappy with Creation’s response and Ms F asked us to review her complaint.
An investigator considered Ms F’s complaint, she ultimately thought that - 

Given the s.75 claim was more likely to be time barred under the LA, Creation’s 
answer seemed fair. 

The s.140A complaint was one we could look at under our rules and that it had been 
referred in time. 

Misrepresentations could be considered under s.140A. 

A court would likely find an unfair relationship had been created between Ms F and 
Creation. 
On 25 July 2023, the investigator recommended that Ms F keep the system and Creation 
take into account what Ms F had paid so far, along with the benefits she received, and 
make sure the system was effectively self-funding. 
Ms F accepted the investigator’s view. Creation has not responded to the investigator’s 
findings. So, the case was progressed to the next stage of our process, an Ombudsman’s 
decision. I consider that Creation has now had time sufficient to have made further 
submissions had it wished to.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My findings on jurisdiction 
I’m satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider Ms F’s complaint, both in respect of the refusal 
by Creation to accept and pay her s.75 claim and the allegations of an unfair relationship 
under s.140A.
The s.75 complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s alleged wrongful rejection of Ms F’s s.75 claim 
on 11 November 2021, this relates to a regulated activity under our compulsory 
jurisdiction. Ms F brought her complaint about this to the ombudsman service on 18 
November 2021. So, her complaint in relation to the s.75 claim was brought in time for the 
purposes of our jurisdiction.
The Unfair relationship under s.140A complaint 
The event complained of here is Creation’s participation, for so long as the credit 
relationship continues, in an alleged unfair relationship with Ms F. The loan was still 
running when the complaint was brought to this service and is still running. So, the 
complaint has been brought in time for the purposes of our jurisdiction.
Merits
The s.75 complaint 
The law imposes a six-year limitation period on claims for misrepresentation and breach of 
contract, after which they become time barred. 
In this case the alleged misrepresentation and alleged breach cause of action arose when 
an agreement was entered into on 27 May 2015. Ms F brought her s.75 claim to Creation 
on 16 September 2021 that is more than six years after she entered into an agreement 
with them. Given this, I think it was fair and reasonable for Creation to have not accepted 
the s.75 claim. So, I do not uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
The unfair relationship under s.140A complaint
When considering whether representations and contractual promises by M can be 
considered under s.140A I’ve looked at the court’s approach to s.140A. 
In Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 the Court of Appeal said 
a court must consider the whole relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising 
out of the credit agreement and whether it is unfair, including having regard to anything 
done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor before the making of the agreement. A 
misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or misleading presentation are relevant and 
important aspects of a transaction. 
Section 56 (‘s.56’) of the CCA has the effect of deeming M to be the agent of Creation in 
any antecedent negotiations. 
Taking this into account, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for me to consider as part of the complaint about an alleged unfair relationship those 
negotiations and arrangements by M for which Creation were responsible under s.56 
when considering whether it is likely Creation had acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms 
F. 
But in doing so, I should take into account all the circumstances and consider whether a 
Court would likely find the relationship with Creation was unfair under s140A.
What happened?
Ms F has said that she was told by M’s representative that the cost of the system would 
be fully paid for by the FIT payments she would receive and the savings she would make. 
Ms F has said she was cold called by M about the system, and I haven’t seen any 
evidence she had any prior interest in purchasing Solar Panels. 
I’ve looked at the documents provided by Ms F to see if there was anything contained 
within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
The loan agreement, signed by Ms F on 27 May 2015, sets out Ms F’s responsibilities for 
repaying the loan amount and the monthly cost of that. Looking at the loan agreement it 
specifies that the goods being purchased were solar panels. So, I’m satisfied the loan was 
taken in Ms F’s name to solely purchase the system sold by M. 
But the loan agreement contains no mention of the income or savings that may be 
generated. So, there was no way for Ms F to compare her total costs against the financial 
benefits she was allegedly being promised from that document. Given the contract doesn’t 
contain information about the benefits, Ms F would have looked to M’s representative to 
help her understand how much the panels would cost, what they would bring in and how 
much she would benefit from the system in order for her to make a decision.
Creation hasn’t provided evidence to dispute what Ms F said happened. Yet with no prior 
interest, Ms F left the meeting having agreed to an interest-bearing loan, with a monthly 
repayment of around £56, payable for ten years. And I note at the time of the sale, Ms F 
and her husband had two young children and modest incomes. So, given her lack of prior 
interest and the financial burden she took on, I find Ms F’s account of what she was told 
by M to be credible and persuasive. The loan is a costly long-term commitment, and I 
can’t see why she would have seen this purchase as appealing had she not been given 
the reassurances she’s said she received from M. 
I have noted that our investigator thought that Ms F’s testimony seemed persuasive and 
explained why they thought that in their assessment. I have noted that Creation has not 
responded to that assessment. 
For the solar panels to pay for themselves, they would need to produce combined savings 
and FIT income of around £682 per year. I have not seen anything to indicate Ms F’s 
system was not performing as expected but Ms F’s system did not produce sufficiently to 
meet the loan repayments. I have seen some FIT statements that show that income was 
less than half the amount needed for the loan to be self-funding.
So, the statements made by M were not true. I think the salesman from M must 
reasonably have been aware that Ms F’s system would not have produced benefits at this 
level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, the amount of 
sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Ms F’s system would 
not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of the system in the timescales 
stated verbally to Ms F.
Considering Ms F’s account about what she was told, and the documentation she was 
shown at the time of the sale, and in the absence of any other evidence from Creation to 
the contrary, I think it likely M gave Ms F a false and misleading impression of the self-
funding nature of the solar panel system. On balance, I find Ms F’s account to be plausible 
and convincing.
I consider M’s misleading presentation went to an important aspect of the transaction for 
the system, namely the benefits and savings which Ms F was expected to receive by 
agreeing to the installation of the system. I consider that M’s assurances in this regard 
likely amounted to a contractual promise that the solar panel system would have the 
capacity to fund the loan repayments. But, even if they did not have that effect, they 
nonetheless represented the basis upon which Ms F went into the transaction. Either way, 
I think M’s assurances were seriously misleading and false, undermining the purpose of 
the transaction from Ms F’s point of view
Would the court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140a
Where Creation is to be treated as responsible for M’s negotiations with Ms F in respect of 
its misleading and false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel 
system, I’m persuaded a court would likely conclude that because of this the relationship 
between Ms F and Creation was unfair.
Because of this shortfall between her costs and the actual benefits, each month she has 
had to pay more than she expected to cover the difference between her solar benefits and 
the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from the interest paid on a loan 
she would otherwise have not taken out.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In all the circumstances I consider that the fair compensation should aim to remedy
the unfairness of Ms F and Creation’s relationship arising out of M’s misleading and
false assurances as to the self-funding nature of the solar panel system. I require Creation 
to repay Ms F a sum that corresponds to the outcome she could reasonably have 
expected as a result of M’s assurances. That is, that Ms F’s loan repayments should 
amount to no more than the financial benefits she receives for the duration of the loan 
agreement.
Therefore, to resolve the complaint, Creation should recalculate the agreement
based on the known and assumed savings and income Ms F received from the solar
panel system over the 10-year term of the loan, so she pays no more than that. To do
that, I think it’s important to consider the benefit Ms F received by way of FIT
payments as well as through energy savings. Ms F may need to supply up to date details 
to help Creation make that calculation. But Creation can and should use assumptions 
when information is not available. 
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Ms F’s monthly repayments would
reduce, meaning that she would’ve paid more each month than she should’ve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date 
of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
So, to put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must: 

Calculate the total repayments Ms F made towards the loan up until the date of 
settlement – A 

Use Ms F’s electricity bills, FIT statements and meter readings to work out the
known and assumed benefits she received and she would have received over the 
10 year loan period – B

Use B to recalculate what Ms F should have repaid each month towards the
loan and apply 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of her 
payment until the date of settlement – C

Reimburse C to Ms F. 

Give Ms F the option of offsetting this amount [C] from any outstanding loan amount, 
recalculating either her monthly payments or remaining loan term, or a refund of the 
overpayments.
I agree Creation’s refusal to consider the claim under s140A has also caused Ms F
some further inconvenience. And I think the £100 compensation recommended by
our investigator is broadly a fair way to recognise that.
* If Creation considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income
tax from that interest, it should tell Ms F how much tax it’s taken off. It should also
give Ms F a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.”
 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should also be aware that whether my determination 
constitutes a money award or direction (or a combination), what I decide is fair 
compensation need not be what a court would award or order. This reflects the nature of 
the ombudsman service’s scheme as one which is intended to be fair, quick, and informal.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I uphold Ms F’s complaint. I require Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd to calculate and pay the fair compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2024.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4336840
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs T complains about how Creation Consumer Finance Ltd administered her credit 
agreement.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So, I haven’t set it out in 
detail here. Instead, I’ve set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Mrs T had a credit agreement with Creation. During the term of the agreement Mrs T was 
diagnosed with a serious medical condition, which led to significant changes in her life. 
As a result, Mrs T contacted Creation. She says she wanted to organise something which 
allowed her to continue repaying her debt at a more affordable level.
 
No repayment plan was arranged and, ultimately, Creation applied a default to Mrs T’s credit 
file.
 
In January 2023, Mrs T complained to Creation. She said, in summary, that it hadn’t helped 
her at a time of great need – despite her being as upfront as she could about her 
circumstances. Moreover, Mrs T said that the default had subsequently caused serious 
financial repercussions for her and her family at an extremely difficult and vulnerable time. 
Creation didn’t uphold Mrs T’s complaint, so she approached our Service for an independent 
review. One of our Investigators reviewed things and, initially, asked Creation to remove the 
default. Shortly afterwards, though, in light of further comment from Creation, our 
Investigator changed her mind, and didn’t think she could reasonably ask Creation to 
remove the default.
 
Mrs T asked that an Ombudsman review her complaint and make a final decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I contacted Creation, informally at first, to set out how I thought the complaint should be 
resolved. I said:
“…As I understand it, the crux of the dispute is the default registered by Creation 
against Mrs T. I’ve looked at what happened in the lead up to the default being 
registered and, in my view, I think that had Creation stepped in and helped Mrs T 
sooner, then things very likely wouldn’t have ended up as they now have. 
Broadly, I think the decision to go ahead with defaulting Mrs T (while not necessarily 
procedurally “wrong”) was a strict one – and one made without due consideration to 
her circumstances and clear willingness to repay the debt. I’ll explain my position in 
more detail below.
Mrs T contacted Creation in September 2021. During this call she explained her 
cancer diagnosis and the effect it was having on her. So, Creation were aware from 
this point of the challenges Mrs T was currently – and would continue to be – facing. 
Looking at Mrs T’s repayment history from around that time, it’s true to say that she 
did miss some repayments. That said, she was clearly trying to keep up with her 
responsibility to repay the debt and make the best effort she could to stick to her 
contractual obligations. I say that because I’ve seen she made manual repayments to 
bring her account in line when it fell behind. I think this would, or certainly should, 
have indicated to Creation that Mrs T was willing to repay what she owed but might 
have been struggling, quite soon after informing it of her cancer diagnosis. She 
clearly wasn’t, though, in my view, ignoring her responsibilities.
Mrs T called again in December 2021. Here, Creation’s notes suggest that she 
referred to the Covid-19 pandemic as having had an effect on her financial position. 
The call notes don’t appear to reference Mrs T’s medical circumstances, but I don’t 
think she ought to have been expected to bring those up each and every time she 
called – which, incidentally, is something she’s told us she had to do, and is unhappy 
about. As I’ve said above, Creation had already been informed of the medical issues 
Mrs T faced and – given the recent missed repayments, as well as references to the 
pandemic impacting her financial position – I think Creation ought to have realised, 
with all of that combined, that Mrs T was clearly vulnerable and in need of help at this 
point. So, I think Creation should’ve stepped in here.
I’ll say at this point that I know Creation has already acknowledged that it could’ve 
done better, so I won’t revisit that aspect in detail. As I understand it, Creation’s 
acknowledged failings here are predominantly why Mrs T’s debt was ultimately 
written off. Nonetheless, it remains that I don’t think I can fairly say Creation treated 
Mrs T positively and sympathetically in her specific circumstances.
Looking at Mrs T’s wider testimony and evidence, she’s shown that she was able to 
reach agreements with her other creditors to keep up repayments and avoid default. 
It doesn’t fit the narrative, or the evidenced pattern of Mrs T’s behaviour, that she’d 
willingly allow this account to slide, ultimately defaulting, and cause her the 
substantial financial issues that it now has. Fundamentally then, I don’t think Creation 
was robust enough in its approach to helping Mrs T. Instead, if it had intervened 
earlier given the clear warning signs, I think it very likely that Mrs T– as with all other 
creditors – would’ve agreed a repayment plan and avoided default.
That’s supported by the letter she wrote to Creation in February 2022. While I know 
Creation says this letter wasn’t received, I think it still provides important 
context on Mrs T’s mindset and determination to reach an agreement and avoid a 
default. There’s nothing illogical about someone in Mrs T’s position wanting to do 
everything they can to avoid financial harm further down the line. And as I’ve already 
explained, given the reasons I've set out above, had Creation stepped as I think it 
should have – and as it’s broadly acknowledged it should have – I think it’s very 
unlikely Mrs T would have reached the point of default.
I’ll be clear that I’m not instructing Creation on what should be recorded, if anything, 
in the alternative to the default. The fact remains that Mrs T did miss repayments. It’s 
simply the case that I think a default almost certainly would’ve been avoided, had 
Creation done things as it should have and stepped in to help Mrs T given what it 
knew about her circumstances.
I think all parties know the need to bring things to a quick resolution here. So, please 
let me know if Creation would be willing to remove the default from Mrs T’s credit file 
and settle the complaint – including the £200 distress and inconvenience payment…”
I gave Creation a deadline of 18 October 2023 to respond, but it didn’t. Instead, it contacted 
this Service asking for an extension to that deadline. I agreed to provide Creation with an 
extension to 1 November 2023, in the hope things could be resolved informally. Again, 
though, Creation hasn’t responded. It’s now had around four weeks to reply and still hasn’t 
done so.
 
I also arranged for my initial findings to be passed to Mrs T. She had no further comments, 
except to say she agreed with everything I’d set out.
 
Given there’s still no reply from Creation, I see no alternative but to issue a formal final 
decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the absence of any further comment or evidence from Creation, I see no 
reason to depart from what I set out when I contacted it on 11 October 2023. 
For completeness, my view of the complaint is:

While I acknowledge that Creation doesn’t think its decision to default Mrs T was 
procedurally “wrong”, I do think the decision was made without due care and 
attention to her specific circumstances. 

Had Creation stepped in as it should have, with meaningful assistance at the right 
time; I find it most likely that a default would’ve been avoided. 

That’s supported by Mrs T’s testimony and her actions with other creditors. She’s 
shown this Service that she was able to reach agreements to repay her other debts, 
and she’s shown that she attempted to do the same with Creation.

I’m satisfied that Mrs T was, in no way, attempting to ignore or avoid her debt. She 
only wanted some help in repaying it, at a very difficult time for her and her family. 
Creation should’ve done more to help.

Creation has broadly acknowledged that it handled Mrs T’s situation poorly, and 
that’s a key reason why the debt was ultimately written off. 

I’m not instructing Creation on what it can record, if anything, in the alternative to a 
default. My finding here is that I’m satisfied a default would most likely (based on the 
available evidence) have been avoided, had Creation done what it should have. 

With all of that in mind, I think Creation should now remove the default. I also agree 
that Mrs T should be compensated for Creation’s poor handling of the matter, and to 
that end I think £200 is appropriate. 
I’m aware of just how much this matter has impacted Mrs T, and I can surely understand her 
loss of trust and confidence in Creation.
It’s so very disappointing to see Creation repeatedly miss deadlines that have been set by 
this Service in an attempt to resolve things quickly. I’ve no doubt that’s caused Mrs T 
continued, avoidable, distress.
  
That said, I know Mrs T wants to put the matter behind her as quickly as possible. So, to 
bring this complaint to an end, I require Creation to:

Remove the default from Mrs T’s credit file.

Pay Mrs T £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it’s caused her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs T’s complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should 
now put things right, as I’ve set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4338966
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s handling of a finance application he 
had made to it resulted in two personal information data breaches. And although these 
breaches did not result in a material loss for Mr G, he says he has suffered a non-material 
loss. 
What happened
Mr G applied for a fixed sum loan agreement with Creation in August 2022, he asked for the 
agreement to be sent in the post for him to read, sign and return. When the agreement didn’t 
arrive after a few days, Mr G rang Creation and confirmed his address. He was told the form 
had been sent out to in the post. However, it was noted by Creation that Mr G’s address was 
in the wrong format and the agreement was sent out to him again.
Although Mr G had provided his correct address to Creation it failed to update its records 
correctly and the second agreement was again incorrectly addressed. The agreement was 
sent out for a third time and this time Mr G received it, signed it and returned it to Creation.
Mr G was unhappy that two agreements containing his personal data had been sent to the 
wrong address and complained to Creation that there had been a data breach.
Creation upheld his complaint. It said there had been an accidental breach of Mr G’s data 
because of the format of his address. It said the address error had been made by whoever 
had originally completed the finance application, but it accepted it hadn’t then correctly 
updated its system when the error with the address was identified. Creation confirmed that 
neither of the two agreements with the wrong address had been returned to it. 
Creation offered Mr G £100 compensation for the error, as it said there wasn’t any evidence 
the breach had resulted in a material loss for him.
Mr G informed Creation that he disagreed with its offer and said that the breach had resulted 
in a non-material loss in that he was now suffering from a health condition linked to stress. 
He explained that due to his work experience, he was very aware of the potential impact 
data losses can cause and so Creation’s actions in sending out the paperwork to the wrong 
address on two separate occasions had resulted in significant distress and inconvenience for 
him.
Creation reviewed its decision and increased the compensation offer to £200. Mr G 
disagreed that the compensation was sufficient for the impact of the data losses and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didn’t recommend that Mr G’s complaint should be upheld. He said that in 
light of Mr G not suffering any material loss as a direct result of the personal data breach he 
thought that the £200 compensation was fair and reasonable, and he wouldn’t ask Creation 
to do more.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator’s view. He said he thought Creation had handled his 
personal data shoddily and there had been an impact on his health as a result. Mr G said the 
Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) had upheld his complaint that Creation were liable 
for two breaches of his personal data.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Creation says that the original formatting of the address was due to the way it had been 
inputted by either Mr G or the retailer when the credit agreement was applied for online. But 
Creation has accepted that the address should have been corrected when Mr G made 
contact with it, and this did not happen. I’ve seen Mr G feels Creation didn’t accept at first 
there had been a data breach at all when he first complained, but I think Creation was saying 
it didn’t know whether Mr G’s personal information had actually been given to someone else 
because of the way the address had been recorded. However, I think Creation agrees there 
have been data breaches here, and regardless of how that error arose, it isn’t disputed that 
two separate agreements containing Mr G’s personal data weren’t delivered to him because 
of the errors made with his address. This is also inline with the ICO’s findings of two data 
breaches due to the actions of Creation.
The issue for me is therefore, whether the amount of compensation paid by Creation to Mr G 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As explained by our investigator, 
compensation is to reflect the impact of something that has gone wrong rather than to act as 
a punishment for the business.
Here, it is agreed that there hasn’t been any material loss caused to Mr G as a result of the 
agreements being wrongly addressed. Mr G has raised that a non-material loss was caused 
to him, in particular the effect it had on his health. While I am sorry to hear Mr G has 
experienced physical symptoms which are linked to stress, I haven’t seen any medical 
evidence that says this condition was directly or solely due to his distress over the potential 
impact of his lost data. I absolutely accept that Mr G would have been concerned about what 
may result from his lost personal data, but I’m afraid I don’t accept the suggested figure he 
proposed to Creation as being a reasonable amount of compensation. I don’t think that 
amount was proportionate in respect of what had happened and the actual impact on him.
Looking at what happened, I’m satisfied that the £200 compensation paid by Creation to Mr 
G is in keeping with the amount I would consider fair for the non-material loss suffered by Mr 
G. He was distressed and inconvenienced to find that two agreements had been sent out to 
him but not delivered and their whereabouts remain unknown, however, no material loss to 
Mr G was caused.
So, for the reasons given above, I’m not asking Creation to do more as I consider the 
compensation payment that has been made is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I’m not upholding Mr G’s complalint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2024.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4341129
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs B complains that a sofa acquired with finance from Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mrs B ordered a new sofa from a retailer in June 2022 and entered into a finance agreement 
with Creation.
When the sofa was delivered in September 2022 Mrs B noticed some issues with it including 
marks on the leather, a lack of filling and lopsided cushions. Mrs B contacted the retailer and 
asked to return the sofa.
The retailer sent a technician to look at the sofa. The technicians report stated that no 
manufacturing faults had been found and that the creasing and marks on the leather were 
natural.
Mrs B remained unhappy and arranged an independent inspection of the sofa. The report 
concluded that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality.
Mrs B was unable to resolve matters with the retailer. Ultimately, she hired a van and 
returned the sofa herself.
Mrs B raised a section 75 claim with Creation.
Creation rejected the claim. It said the report obtained by the retailer stated that there was 
no manufacturing fault and the report obtained by Mrs B didn’t provide enough evidence to 
support her claim. Creation also said that the claim hadn’t been upheld by the Furniture and 
Home Improvement Ombudsman (FHIO).
Mrs B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said they were persuaded by the independent 
inspection report obtained by Mrs B which stated that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality. 
The investigator said that Creation should end the agreement, refund all payments made by 
Mrs B and refund the cost of the van hire and the inspection report.
Creation didn’t agree. It said the retailer had told it that the FHIO had ruled in their favour. 
Creation also said that the upholstery company who carried out the inspection for Mrs B 
didn’t state that it carried out inspections on its website.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if there’s been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs B’s complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there’s been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Creations response to the claim wasn’t fair or 
reasonable.
Mrs B hasn’t said that there’s been a misrepresentation, so I’ll focus on whether there’s been 
a breach of contract.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. The legislation says that the quality of goods includes 
their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
If the goods aren’t of satisfactory quality when supplied, then a breach of contract can be 
said to have occurred.
I’ve looked at the available evidence including the report arranged by the retailer and the 
report arranged by Mrs B. I haven’t been able to look at the FHIO adjudication because 
neither party has provided this.
The evidence shows that Mrs B raised concerns about the sofa as soon as it was delivered 
to her. She complained about the marks and creases in the leather and a lack of filling in the 
cushions.
The report arranged by the retailer is relatively short. It states that there isn’t a manufacturing 
fault and that the marks and creases are natural characteristics of the leather. The report 
doesn’t mention the filling.
The report arranged by Mrs B is more detailed. It states that the marks on the leather are 
due to damage which occurred in the manufacturing process and that the leather is ruckled 
due to underfilling of the cushions or to the wrong size covers. The report also states that the 
headrests on the sofa don’t align, and the seat covers are of different shapes. The report 
concludes that the sofa isn’t of satisfactory quality.
Based on what I’ve seen, I find the independent report obtained by Mrs B the more 
persuasive of the two reports.
Creation has questioned the report. It says that the upholstery company who carried out the 
inspection don’t advertise that they carry out inspections on their website. I haven’t seen any 
evidence to suggest that the upholstery company isn’t an appropriately qualified expert to 
carry out the inspection. I’m satisfied that the report is reliable.
Creation has said that the claim wasn’t upheld by FHIO. This was one of the reasons it gave 
for rejecting the section 75 claim. However, Creation asked the investigator to provide the 
FHIO adjudication, which suggest to me that Creation hadn’t seen it. The investigator 
couldn’t provide it because neither party has provided it to this service. I don’t think it was fair 
for Creation to reject the section 75 claim based on an adjudication which on balance it 
doesn’t appear to have seen. 
On balance, I’m persuade that the sofa wasn’t of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I 
think the weight of evidence shows this. This means there’s been a breach of contract for the 
purposes of section 75. It follows that I don’t think Creation’s response to the section 75 
claim was fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Mrs B has returned the sofa to the retailer already and it appears to have gone missing and 
it isn’t clear where the sofa is now. So I don’t think a repair is possible in the circumstances.
Therefore, I think the fairest was to resolve the complaint is for Creation to allow Mrs B to 
reject the sofa and end the agreement. It should refund all of the payments she’s made and 
refund the costs of the report and the van that she hired to return the sofa to the retailer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund all payments made by Mrs B under the agreement
Refund the costs of the inspection report (£60) and the van (£100)
Pay 8% simple interest per year on all amounts refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mrs B’s credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4345453
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T complains that he wasn’t provided with any information when he entered into a Buy 
Now Pay Later (BNPL) agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr T purchased a washer-dryer from a merchant and entered into a credit 
agreement with Creation. Mr T chose the BNPL option, which meant that if he paid for the 
goods in full on or before 10 March 2022 he wouldn’t have to pay any interest. Mr T opted in 
to receive online statements through his new Creation online account. 
In April 2022 Mr T noticed an unexpected direct debit from his bank account. As he wasn’t 
expecting this he called his bank and requested a refund. He called and emailed the 
merchant to clarify the situation with Creation and source his account number so that he 
could log on to the online account. He paid the full balance of the washer-dryer on 3 May. As 
he hadn’t paid the balance by 10 March Creation charged him interest. He raised a 
complaint with Creation. He said he hadn’t received any information in relation to his credit 
agreement. 
In its final response Creation said two statements were made available to Mr T by his ‘Online 
Account Manager’ as paperless statement delivery was selected at the point of sale, as a 
reminder of the Special Offer Date. It said, however, as it did not receive payment by or 
before the required date, interest became applicable, and a direct debit was initiated to 
collect monthly repayments from his bank account. Creation went on to say Mr T signed an 
agreement to confirm he had read, understood, and accepted the Terms and Conditions. 
The agreement outlined his Special Offer Date, and how the interest would be applied. 
Mr T wasn’t satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said he hadn’t been 
treated fairly by Creation as it hadn’t sent him any type of correspondence regarding his 
account before the payment was taken 10 months after purchase. He said he didn’t even 
know the credit company used by the merchant. Mr T said when he finally accessed the 
online account he was able to read the agreement which said he would receive a monthly 
notification by email when his statement was ready. He said he didn’t receive any emails. 
And the only access given to him by Creation to the online account was when he signed the 
agreement. 
Our investigator concluded that Mr T had been provided with a link to allow him to register 
and access his account. He said Mr T could’ve contacted Creation to access the account 
and it was his responsibility to make sure he repaid the borrowed amount within the BNPL 
period. 
Mr T did not agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said at no point did 
Creation make clear that the online account was the only means for him to get information. 
He said he had the funds to pay the full balance prior to the BNPL interest free deadline but 
Creation had allowed the 9-month offer period to pass with no contact whatsoever.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 August 2023. I said: 
“I can see from the credit agreement Mr T signed that he opted in to receive online 
statements. I can also see the details of the BNPL period were clearly outlined in the 
agreement. But I also note that it says: 
“You’ll receive a monthly notification via email when your statement is ready. 
This will contain a link to log on to your account online to view your 
statement.” 
My role is to come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the 
evidence available to me, taking account of the relevant laws, rules and industry 
practice. It was Mr T’s responsibility to pay for the balance prior to the deadline to 
avoid interest accruing. But it was Creation’s responsibility to ensure Mr T had 
reasonable access to his account. And I can’t see that it did. In the agreement it said 
it would email Mr T to inform him when statements were ready. It said in its final 
response that two statements were available online. 
I asked Creation to provide me with a copy of any emails sent to Mr T between 20 
June 2021 and 20 March 2022 and to confirm the email address it holds for him. I 
also asked specifically if Mr T was sent any statement emails before 20 March 2022. 
Creation provided evidence of statements available to Mr T through his online 
account and confirmed the correct email address for him. In answer to my request for 
copies of emails it may have sent before March 2022 it provided copies of 
statements. But it hasn’t provided evidence of any actual emails it sent to Mr T to 
inform him that statements were available and including the link to his online account. 
Mr T has provided evidence that he had more than sufficient funds in his bank 
account to pay the outstanding balance prior to the interest free deadline and he paid 
the balance as soon as he realised what the direct debit was taken for. So I’m 
satisfied his intention had always been to pay the balance before the deadline. 
I’m not persuaded Creation sent any emails to Mr T despite saying that it would do so 
on the agreement. I think it’s likely Mr T would’ve paid in full before the end of the 
BNPL interest free period had he received emails and the link to the account to 
access his statements.”
Subject to any further information I might receive from either party I was minded to instruct 
Creation to remove all interest from Mr T’s account relating to the purchase which is the 
subject of this complaint.
Mr T responded to my provisional decision to inform us that he’d made the interest payment 
to prevent further charges. Creation said Mr T opted out of notifications except for 
statements. It said it could not be held responsible for how Mr T manages his online account.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe my provisional decision stills stands. In its email in response to my 
provisional decision Creation said:
“It seems the customer did opt out to their notifications apart from their statements. 
Due to this, the customer did not receive the monthly notification when the statement 
is ready to view.
Creation cannot be held responsible in how the customer manage their online 
account manager.”
Creation included a screenshot from its system indicating Mr T’s notification settings from 
when he set up his account. For ‘account settled alert’, ‘account update’ and ‘end pay later 
period’ he opted out of email and SMS notifications. So I can understand why Mr T didn’t 
receive an email when his BNPL deal was due to end. But Creation’s comments above are 
contradictory regarding statements. Mr T opted in to receive email notifications for 
statements so he should have received emails alerting him to the statement when it was 
available online. And as I mentioned above Creation said access to the online account would 
be in those emails. Creation still hasn’t provided copies of any emails it sent to Mr T so I’m 
still not persuaded it sent any and I remain of the opinion that Mr T would have settled in full 
before the end of the BNPL period.   
Putting things right
To put things right Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must remove all interest from Mr T's 
account relating to the purchase which is a subject of this complaint. 
Mr T said he paid £490.17 in interest on 7 October 2022 so Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
must refund this interest payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must 
put things right as I've set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4349033
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s (‘Creation’) response to the claims 
he made under Section 75 (‘s.75’) and Section 140A (‘s.140A’) of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (the ‘CCA’).
What Happened 
In 2014 Mr L entered into a contract with an installer (‘A’) to supply a solar panel system. He 
paid partly by cheque, and partly via a fixed term loan agreement with Creation. The price for 
the panels was £10,945 and this plus the additional costs of the loan made the total amount 
payable £12,816.82. 
The loan agreement was signed the same day as the purchase contract and Mr L repaid the 
loan in 2021. 
Mr L, via his representatives contacted Creation in 2020 to make a claim under s.75 and 
s140 of the CCA. He said the benefits of the panels had been misrepresented to him. He 
said he was led to believe the electricity savings and FIT payment income from the panels 
would cover the costs of the loan he’d taken out and leave him with a profit. In fact, there 
was a shortfall between the cost of the loan payments and the benefits, causing a financial 
loss.
Mr L also raised several points which he alleged, in addition to the misrepresentation, 
created an unfair relationship between him and Creation. He said he had not been made 
aware that Creation had commission on the sale, which was a breach of fiduciary duty, 
Creation had failed to ensure A observed the relevant codes at the time of sale, and 
insufficient credit checks had been carried out. 
Creation requested evidence from Mr L but did not respond further, and the complaint was 
brought to our service in 2021.
An investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded that the benefits of the panels had 
been misrepresented to Mr L. He recommended that Creation should calculate the benefits 
from the panels over 10 years (the period of the loan) and ensure that Mr L paid no more 
than that.  
Creation did not accept the investigator’s view, and later wrote to Mr L saying it considered 
the complaint had not been made within 6 years of the sale and was out of our jurisdiction 
under DISP 2.8. It later added that the complaint was time-barred taking into account the 
provisions of the CCA and the Limitation Act 1980 (the ‘LA’).
A second investigator didn’t agree, in summary she said that as Mr L had brought his s.75 
complaint to us within 6 years of the rejection of his s.75 claim by Creation. However, she 
considered how Creation had handled the s.75 claim and felt it had not acted unreasonably 
in applying the LA when considering the arguments made to decline the s.75 claim. 
However, she concluded that Mr L’s unfair relationship complaint was made in time, as the 
starting point for both our time limits under DISP and the LA was the point the unfair 
relationship ended. Therefore, Mr L - who settled his loan in 2021 - had brought his 
complaint to us in time taking into account the approach the courts would likely take.
She concluded that misrepresentations made to Mr L at the time of the sale had created an 
unfair relationship.  She recommended that Creation should recalculate the loan and ensure 
that Mr L paid no more than the likely benefits he would receive over the loan period.  She 
also recommended that Creation pay Mr L £150 for how the complaint had been handled. 
Creation did not agree and sought several extensions to enable it to obtain external legal 
advice before responding. As nothing further was received, I issued my provisional decision 
on 3 May 2023.  
My Provisional Decision
In my provisional decision, I reached broadly the same outcome as the investigator, and set 
out in detail my reasoning for concluding why the complaint was in our jurisdiction, my 
assessment of the merits and my suggested redress.  
My reasoning was as follows
Our approach to our jurisdiction to consider the complaint
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (the ‘FSMA’) and in rules and guidance contained in the FCA’s Handbook known as 
DISP. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook. The rules surrounding time limits are set out in 
DISP 2.8.2R. 
“The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or 
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received”
Further, DISP 2.3.1R sets out the activities which I can consider under our compulsory 
jurisdiction and within scope are complaints which relate to acts or omissions by firms in 
carrying on one or more regulated activities (see DISP 2.3.1R(1)).
There are several other rules and guidance provisions relevant to our jurisdiction, and for 
the avoidance of doubt I have only set out relevant DISP rules and guidance so far as they 
are relevant to any disputes raised by Creation about our jurisdiction to consider Mr L’s 
complaint.
In order to explain how I have approached our jurisdiction to consider the complaint, I have 
set out how I have construed the complaint as it relates to acts or omissions surrounding the 
s.75 claim and acts or omissions surrounding the alleged unfair relationship taking into 
account s.140A separately. 
This is because the basis for the ombudsman service being able to look at these different 
categories of acts or omissions complained of has an important bearing on how I construe 
the events complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) on the six-year time limit, 
notwithstanding that how I construe Mr L’s complaint points is also relevant to my 
consideration of the merits. I have not found it necessary to go on to consider the application 
of the three-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) in this matter because in both cases I 
consider the complaint is brought within scope of the six-year rule under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a).
Jurisdiction to look at the s.75 claim complaint
What are the acts or omissions complained of within our jurisdiction under DISP 2.3.1R?
Where Creation is exercising its rights and duties as a creditor under a credit agreement it is 
carrying on a regulated activity within scope of our compulsory jurisdiction under Article 
60B(2) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the ‘RAO’).
The regulated activity in question is that of exercising, or having the right to exercise, the 
lender’s rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement.  The part of those rights and 
duties to which the present complaint relates is the lender’s duty to give Mr L credit for a 
liability allegedly owed to him as borrower, as the complaint alleges that Creation failed to do 
this when it rejected his s.75 claim.  Mr L says that was a valid claim, when he notified it to 
Creation and he complains that Creation should have been accepted it as a liability. So, the 
events complained of are not the alleged representation by A but Creation’s alleged failure to 
accept the s.75 claim which Mr L maintains was valid when made. That is not to say that the 
six-year limitation period for bringing claims for misrepresentation in court is irrelevant.  
Indeed, I find below that the expiry of that limitation period gave Creation justification for 
declining Mr L’s s.75 claim. But that is a point that goes to the merits of Mr L’s complaint 
under s.75, rather than our service’s jurisdiction to investigate it.
Have the events complained of in relation to the s.75 claim been brought in time?
Taking into account what I consider the events complained of are for the purposes of 
DISP 2.8.2R(2)(a) – the failure to accept the s.75 claim – I am satisfied Mr L has brought 
that element of his complaint in time where he referred it to the ombudsman service during 
2021 which is within six years of the date Creation failed to accept the s.75 claim (on or 
around June 2020 when Mr L sought to make the s.75 claim). 
Jurisdiction to look at the complaint about an unfair relationship taking into account 
s.140A
What are the acts or omissions complained of within our jurisdiction under DISP 2.3.1R?
Mr L’s complaint points in relation to his allegations of an unfair relationship with Creation 
taking into account s.140A are matters which in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint fall in scope of our jurisdiction to consider regulated activities under Article 60B(1) 
and (2). That is both Creation entering into a regulated credit agreement as lender, and it 
exercising its rights and duties as creditor under a credit agreement.
This is because Mr L’s complaint about an unfair relationship is constituted of several 
complaint points including: 

allegations of misrepresentation by A for which Creation is responsible under s.56 of 
the CCA and which can be considered within scope of our jurisdiction under DISP 
2.3.1R taking into account the guidance in DISP 2.3.3G which states complaints 
about acts or omissions include those for which firms are responsible;

Creation’s provision of the financial service of making restricted-use loans where Mr 
L alleges: 
o
he had not been made aware that Creation had commission on the sale;
o
Creation had failed to ensure A observed the relevant codes at the time of 
sale; and
o
Insufficient credit checks had been carried out.
However, it would be wrong to construe the complaint by reference to the singular acts or 
omissions which Mr L alleges rendered his relationship with Creation unfair. The proper 
construction of an event complained of for the purposes of a complaint about an unfair 
relationship, is that the ‘event’ complained of is the lender’s participation in an unfair 
relationship in having and asserting rights as lender
Therefore, whether the relationship is unfair or not, and for what duration that unfairness has 
persisted, is something I have to consider not only with respect to the merits of the 
complaint, but also for the purposes our jurisdiction under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a). Because of 
this it may be of assistance to read my detailed findings on the merits of the complaint to 
understand why I consider the relationship was likely to be unfair in all the circumstances of 
the complaint for the duration of Mr L’s agreement with Creation when reading my 
summarised version of these findings within this jurisdiction section of this decision. 
Have the events complained of in relation to an unfair relationship taking into account s.140A 
been brought in time?
With reference to the later sections of this decision on the merits of the unfair relationship 
element of the complaint, I have concluded – in summary – that the relationship between 
Creation and Mr L was likely to be unfair taking into account relevant law and evidence 
because I consider that Mr L was induced into entering a contract with Creation by 
misrepresentations of A as to the likely benefits he was going to receive under that contract. 
I further consider that the unfairness caused by that misrepresentation, persisted throughout 
the duration of the agreement with Creation as it caused financial losses which persisted 
until Mr L paid off the loan and his agreement ended. 
In short, where the event complained of is the alleged unfair relationship, and I have found 
that this relationship was unfair and that the unfairness persisted until the end of the 
agreement I consider the six-year period under DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) runs from the date the 
agreement ended in 2021.
Mr L referred his complaint to the ombudsman service within the six-year period, and 
therefore it is not necessary for me to go on to consider the three-year rule under DISP 
2.8.2R (2)(b) in the circumstances. 
In reaching this decision on jurisdiction, I have derived assistance from the Court’s approach 
to limitation in Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (‘Patel’) where the Court considered 
when the relevant limitation period would run from under the LA in respect of a claim under 
s.140A and found that the debtor’s cause of action under such a claim was “a continuing one 
which accrues from day to day until the relevant relationship ends”.
I have also considered the Court of Appeal’s judgment in Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
[2021] EWCA Civ 1832 (‘Smith’) which is currently subject to an appeal in the Supreme 
Court and – at time of writing – has been heard but judgment is yet to be handed down. 
However, that case is not in my view as relevant to circumstances of the complaint I am 
concerned with here, as I am making a finding that the unfairness in the relationship was 
likely to have persisted until Mr L paid off the loan, and – in my view - there are no 
circumstances where it can be concluded unfairness ended at some earlier date. In any 
event, I am satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider the unfair relationship aspect of the 
complaint in the circumstances. 
Merits of the complaint
The relevance of the LA for the purposes of the s.75 claim complaint
In the context of the s.75 claim it is important to consider that if the relevant limitation period 
under the LA had expired for the purposes of a claim against A, any ‘like’ claim under s.75 
against Creation would also be extinguished. The relevant limitation period for a claim based 
on misrepresentation by A in these circumstances would be six years calculated from the 
date when the cause of action accrued and this – in my view – would be when the benefits of 
agreement were misrepresented to Mr L on 2 February 2014.
Based on what I have seen, Mr L raised his s.75 claim with Creation during June 2020, so 
this would be outside the six-year period for the purposes of the LA and therefore I don’t 
consider Creation had to do anything further in relation to his claim in the circumstances. I 
don’t uphold this aspect of Mr L’s complaint on the merits.
Can misrepresentations be considered under s.140A?
 
As I have previously explained, I am required to take into account relevant law to determine 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint and I have considered the 
Court’s approach to considering misrepresentations under s.140A claims to inform my 
approach to the unfair relationship complaint on that basis. 
I have considered Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust [2014] EWCA Civ 790 (‘Scotland’), 
in which said the following when considering if a misrepresentation could be relevant to an 
unfair relationship claim under s.140A: 
 
“In this regard it is important to have in mind that the court must consider the whole 
relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the credit agreement 
and whether it is unfair having regard to one or more of the three matters set out in 
s.140A(1), which include anything done (or not done) by or on behalf of the creditor 
before the making of the agreement. A misrepresentation by the creditor or a false or 
misleading presentation of relevant and important aspects of the transaction seem to 
me to fall squarely within the scope of this provision.”
 
Applying the approach explained in Scotland, I consider it would be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances for me to consider as part of the complaint about an unfair relationship 
those negotiations and arrangements by A for which Creation were responsible – as per s.56 
of the CCA - when considering whether it is likely the relationship was unfair for the 
purposes of s.140A taking into account what the Court’s approach likely would be.
What happened?
When speaking to our investigator, Mr L said that he was told by the representative of A that 
the benefits of the panels (energy produced and FIT payments) would quickly cover his 
electricity usage, his loan costs and the cash amount he paid. Mr L says he was told the 
system would pay for itself. Mr L also said he paid half of the cost of the panels in cash, as 
he didn’t want to take on a large interest-bearing loan and wanted to keep the cost down. 
I’ve considered Mr L’s account about what happened when he spoke to A. I find this to be 
credible and persuasive. I think it is unlikely that he would’ve agreed to the solar panel 
system and a loan with Creation unless he’d been led to believe that it would be self-funding 
and come at no additional cost to him. 
Creation has not supplied any evidence or reasoning to challenge Mr L’s testimony, and as I 
consider it persuasive, I accept Mr L’s version of events.
The documentation
I’ve gone on to consider the paperwork that has been provided to see if there was anything 
contained within it that made it clear that the solar panel system wouldn’t be self-funding. 
What I am considering is whether or not all the documentation Mr L had access to at the 
time of the sale would have made it evident that, despite what he says he was told, the solar 
panels would not be self-funding. 
In order for him to make an informed decision about the benefits of the panels in relation to 
the overall costs to him he needed to be able to compare the cost of the solar panel system 
to any benefit he may have received or have been promised.
I’ve considered the loan agreement. This is dated 2 February 2014, and sets out, amongst 
other things, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total amount payable, 
the term of the loan and the contractual monthly loan repayments. 
I’m satisfied that this is clear. I’ve also considered the contract signed by Mr L and the 
installer on the same date, which includes the following:
 
There’s no explanation here as to how these numbers were calculated and nothing to easily 
enable Mr L to compare these future benefits with the actual cost of the system, including 
the finance. In fact, given the reference to the payback year, and 20-year benefits figure, I 
think this would encourage Mr L to accept what he was told about the panels paying for 
themselves.
Taking the above into account, I consider that the various documents provided to Mr L 
presented in such a way that it would have been difficult for him to make an informed 
decision without relying on what he was told by the representative of A. So, I’m persuaded it 
is reasonable for Mr L to have relied on what he was told when he entered into the contract.
Were the representations made to Mr L untrue statements of fact?
For the solar panels to pay for themselves as Mr L says he was told, they would need to 
cover the costs of the loan and Mr L’s cash payment and produce combined savings and fit 
income of over £1,282.68 a year.  I have not seen anything to indicate Mr L’s system is not 
performing as expected but Mr L’s system has not produced this. So, these representations 
were not true. 
I think the salesman from A would have been aware Mr L’s system would not have produced 
benefits at this level. Whilst there are elements of the calculations that had to be estimated, 
the amount of sunlight as an example, I think the salesman would have known that Mr L’s 
system would not produce enough benefits to cover the overall cost of his panels in the 
timescales stated in the documentation or verbally to Mr L. 
Did the representations induce Mr L to enter into the purchase and loan agreement?
Taking into account Mr L’s testimony about what he was told, and the documentation he was 
shown at the time of the sale, I am satisfied that the actions of A’s salesman, acting at that 
time as an agent for Creation, did induce Mr L into entering into a contract that he otherwise 
would not have done. 
The salesman, acting in a position of knowledge about the effectiveness of the panels, would 
have been aware that they would not pay for themselves in way Mr L was led to believe. I’ve 
not seen anything to demonstrate Mr L decided to purchase the solar panel system for 
anything other than the cost savings this would produce for him on his energy bills. And as I 
have found, the system would not actually produce the savings he was led to believe he 
would receive. 
Would a court be likely to make a finding of unfairness under s.140A?
In line with the reasoning above, it follows that if I accept that Mr L was induced into entering 
the contract with Creation due to the misrepresentations made by A, acting as an agent of 
Creation at that point, I consider that a court would be likely to conclude that because of this 
the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair. 
Had Mr L been aware of the actual benefits he was likely to receive from the panels, and that 
they would not pay for themselves until far later than he was led to expect, he would not 
have entered into the contract.  Because of this shortfall between his costs and the actual 
benefits, each month he has had to pay more than he expected to cover the difference 
between his solar benefits and the cost of the loan. So, clearly Creation has benefitted from 
the interest paid on a loan he would otherwise have not taken out.   
It is clear to me that without the misrepresentations made by Creation’s agent at the point of 
sale, Mr L would not have bought the panels, or entered into the loan contract. Therefore, I 
am persuaded taking into account the Court’s approach that this has caused an unfair 
relationship.
Mr L expected his costs in relation to the panels to be covered by the benefits, but in fact 
each month he has had to pay more than he had made, so Mr L lost out and Creation has 
benefitted. Had Mr L been aware of the true state of affairs, he would not have bought the 
panels or entered into the contract for the loan.
I consider these misrepresentations and the resulting financial cost which persisted until the 
agreement with Creation ended caused the relationship between Mr L and Creation to be 
unfair and that it is likely a court would find it so under s.140A. It follows that I do not 
consider Creation have acted in a fair and reasonable way in all the circumstances of the 
complaint concerning the unfair relationship and, because Mr L has suffered financial losses, 
I consider Mr L’s complaint should be upheld. 
Fair compensation
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining compensation isn’t an exact science. My role is to arrive at fair 
compensation taking account of the particular circumstances of the complaint.
Our approach in these circumstances is to award redress based on putting Mr L into the 
position he would have been but for the unfair relationship which I consider likely existed 
between him and Creation taking into account relevant law when determining what a fair and 
reasonable conclusion to this complaint should be.
I have considered if a full unwind of the agreement, where the panels are removed and Mr L 
is returned all the money paid to the loan, less any benefits received, is suitable redress.  I’m 
mindful that whilst this puts Mr L back to his original position, it’s likely to be a complicated 
and disruptive process and incur considerable expense arranging for the panels to be 
removed, along with any associated work. 
I’ve also borne in mind that Mr L’s complaint is not about any issue with the panels 
themselves, but about the unfairness caused by the misrepresentation of the benefits he 
would receive. 
He believed the panels would pay for themselves. So, I consider it fair to both parties to put 
Mr L into that position. This removes any unfairness to Mr L.    
To achieve this, Creation needs to ensure that the amount Mr L paid for the panels is no 
more than the likely benefits he would have received.  
To do this Creation needs to:

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr L made towards 
the solar panel system up until he repaid the loan - A

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until he repaid 
the loan - B

Use B to recalculate what Mr L should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and reimburse Mr L the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement - C

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received for the period 
between the loan being paid off and the original loan term - D

Deduct D from the amount Mr L paid off the loan – E

Calculate 8% interest on E, applied from the date he paid off the loan until the date of 
settlement – F

Reimburse C + F
I also think the way Creation handled Mr L’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £150 is appropriate. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Creation responded on 4 May 2023 after the provisional decision was issued providing a 
copy of a letter dated, but not sent on, 21 April 2023 addressing the view of 20 December 
2022 issued by the investigator. Creation’s letter set out its disagreement with the 
investigator’s position on our jurisdiction, reserved its rights on the merits of the case, and 
asked that we consider a Court case when considering redress in the event we decided we 
could look at the complaint. On 26 May 2023, Creation asked the case be reconsidered in 
the light of its letter, and requested a further provisional decision. 
Mis-Sold Claims Assist, on behalf of Mr L, accepted the provisional decision. 
  
It is important to highlight that in my provisional decision I made the finding that the proper 
construction of an event complained of per DISP 2.8.2R (2) (a) for the purposes of a 
complaint about an unfair relationship, is that the ‘event’ complained of, is the lender’s 
participation in an unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender. That remains 
my finding for the purposes of this final decision. 
However, later in the provisional decision under the section on whether a complaint had 
been brought in time in respect of the unfair relationship element of the complaint I stated, 
“the event complained of is the alleged unfair relationship”. For the avoidance of doubt, I did 
not intend to suggest the event complained of was other than the lender’s participation in an 
unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender, and as per my final decision 
below I do not make the finding that the unfair relationship is the event complained of.
Further, on reflection it was more accurate to title one of my sub-headings in the provisional 
decision “Have the events complained of in relation to an unfair relationship taking into 
account s.140A been brought in time?” as have the events complained of in relation to an 
unfair relationship taking into account s.140A been complained of in time.
I responded to Creation’s further submissions in a letter to both parties on 7 September 
2023.  
Request to issue another provisional decision
I want to make it clear to both parties that my provisional decision was issued following a full 
review of the case file.  Whilst the arguments Creation belatedly made had not been raised 
in this case previously, they have been made on other cases, and I was aware of them. In 
any event, I consider these points are sufficiently addressed in my provisional decision 
taking into account the particular circumstances of Mr L’s complaint. 
While I note Creation wishes to reserve its position on the merits of the case,  the rules and 
guidance on our process under DISP in the FCA Handbook enable me to proceed to 
consideration of a complaint where a respondent fails to comply with a time limit fixed for any 
aspect of the consideration of a complaint, and allow me to reach a decision on the basis of 
what has been supplied while taking into account the failure by a party to provide information 
requested (see DISP 3.5.9R (3), DISP 3.5.13R and DISP 3.5.14R (1)).  Creation has been 
provided a reasonable period of time and several opportunities to respond to the merits of 
the complaint Mr L has brought, and it has declined to do so.  
 
Therefore, I do not consider Creation’s late response to the view to be a good reason to 
delay the complaint’s progression to a final decision. The ombudsman service’s scheme is 
one under which disputes are to be resolved quickly and fairly with minimum formality, and 
DISP 3.5.1R explains that I am required to attempt resolution of complaints at the earliest 
possible stage by whatever means appear to be most appropriate. I am satisfied it is 
appropriate to move to determination of this complaint by a final decision in the 
circumstances.  
 
Approach to redress
Creation also requested that in the event I did consider the merits of the case, I take account 
the High Court judgment in Hodgson v Creation Consumer Finance Ltd [2021] EWHC 2167 
(‘Hodgson’) when looking at redress.
 
Where an ombudsman considers it appropriate to determine a complaint in a complainant’s 
favour and make a money award it is required to consider what constitutes fair 
compensation. However, this has to be considered in light of our statutory scheme to resolve 
complaints quickly and fairly with minimum formality.
Further, under DISP 3.6.4R (1)(a), I am required to take into account relevant law when 
considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, but as per 
R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642 
(‘Heather Moor’) I am free to depart from relevant law so long as I state I am doing so in my 
decisions and explain why (see paragraph 49 of the Court of Appeal’s judgment in that 
case).
In my provisional decision I consider I have set out a fair way to compensate the consumer 
which is proportionate to the situation. That is, to require that the benefits and income from 
the system are set against the overall costs during the term of the loan. That means that 
there is no overall loss to the consumer as a result of entering the unfair contract. It also 
means that when the unfair relationship ends or was due to end, both parties are left in a fair 
position. 
I have considered the methodology set out in Hodgson. But it does not change my view on 
what amounts to fair redress in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Although I 
accept that a Court may adopt the approach in Hodgson in cases which involve facts which 
are the same or similar to Mr L’s complaint the ombudsman service is not bound to follow 
that approach where it considers its application would produce an outcome which is unfair or 
otherwise inconsistent with the nature of its statutory scheme. 
Therefore, to an extent I accept that Hodgson is likely to be relevant law which I ought to 
take into account in the circumstances of this complaint, but as per Heather Moor it is 
appropriate, I set out my reasons for not following Hodgson in this correspondence. I will 
reiterate any relevant points in my final decision to the extent that may be required.
Hodgson was considering assessment of damages under the Misrepresentation Act 1967
It is important to note that in Hodgson the Court was considering an assessment of damages 
payable by a Defendant under the Misrepresentation Act 1967, and the Court was not 
undertaking an assessment of an appropriate remedy required to address the unfairness of 
a relationship between debtor and creditor under s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(the ‘CCA’) as would be the case if Mr L’s complaint were before the Courts. 
It follows that Hodgson is not as relevant to my assessment of fair compensation as Creation 
considers it to be. Where a Court would have a considerable discretionary latitude to remedy 
an unfair relationship under s.140B of the CCA, the ombudsman service considers it has a 
wide latitude in respect of determining what would be a fair remedy in respect of complaints 
involving an unfair relationship taking into account relevant law and the nature of its statutory 
scheme.  
Therefore, I have considered the approach of the Court’s to remedies for unfair relationships. 
In the case of  Kerrigan v Elevate Credit International Ltd (t/a Sunny) (In Administration) 
[2020] EWHC 2169 (Comm) (‘Kerrigan’) which relied on dicta in Patel v Patel [2009] 3264 
(QB) (‘Patel’) the Court explained that it must ensure the remedy for an unfair relationship 
reflects and is proportionate to the nature and degree of the unfairness which it has found 
and is not to be analysed “in the sort of linear terms which arise when considering causation 
proper” (see [79] of Patel and [214] of Kerrigan). Further the Court in Kerrigan at [214] 
explained that the remedy should avoid giving:
"…the claimant a windfall, but should approximate, as closely as possible, to the 
overall position which would have applied had the matters giving rise to the perceived 
unfairness not taken place"
In my view, the judgments in Kerrigan and Patel confirm that it would be fair for a Court to 
take a more flexible approach to assessing loss arising from an unfair relationship and would 
not be required to follow the approach in Hodgson which was applying the general principle 
under s.2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 that a claimant is to be put in the position that 
they would have been in had the relevant representation not been made. 
I consider the flexible approach set out in Kerrigan aligns with the approach I have adopted 
in my provisional decision to redress, and to the extent it is relevant law (and more relevant 
in my view than Hodgson) I consider it appropriate to take into account for the purposes of 
my decision on what would be fair compensation in Mr L’s complaint.
Hodgson’s approach to deductions and maintenance costs would not produce a fair outcome 
nor would be consistent with our statutory scheme in the circumstances
As per Kerrigan, and because I found in my provisional decision that a Court would likely 
conclude that the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair arising from 
misrepresentations I’ve considered the similarities and differences between my proposed 
redress and that set out in Hodgson in order to establish whether it would be appropriate to 
follow it so as to avoid Mr L receiving a windfall while considering whether its application 
would, as closely as possible, achieve a result whereby Mr L is put in a position which would 
have applied had the matters giving rise to the unfair relationship not taken place. 
By way of summary, in Hodgson the judge effectively made Mr Hodgson’s panels self-
funding, by accounting for deductions in four stages –
Stage one – The benefits received up until the point the case was decided upon 
Stage two – The benefits from the point the case was decided upon to the end of the loan 
Stage three – The benefits from the term of the loan to the 20th anniversary of installation, 
with a 40% deduction applied. As the judge felt the likelihood of Mr Hodgson benefitting from 
the solar panels, for all or part of this period, was reduced due to his age.
Stage four – a 100% deduction was applied to the benefits from the 20th anniversary of 
installation to the 25th (which the judge considered to be the whole lifetime of the panels), 
because he didn’t think Mr Hodgson would benefit from the panels at all in this period of time 
due to his age. 
The redress I am proposing is in line with Hodgson in respect of stages one and two but 
deviates from that point onward for several reasons.
In relation to stages three and four, the judge decided deductions based on the age the 
average man, the same age as Mr Hodgson, would die. Whilst I understand the judge’s 
approach, I am conscious no evidence of Mr Hodgson’s health was taken into account.  If I 
were to apply the Court’s approach at the ombudsman service, which has an inquisitorial 
remit, I consider such evidence would need to be taken into account (or at least requested) 
on every complaint, as individual health factors could significantly reduce a consumer’s life 
expectancy, and the average deduction could be lower than it actually needs to be. I’m not 
aware of Mr L’s medical history, but in order to determine whether or not an average 
reduction would be fair in the particular circumstances of the complaint I would need to 
engage in substantial data gathering and analysis.
As previously explained, I must be mindful of the nature of the ombudsman service’s 
scheme to be a quick and fair dispute resolution service which has minimum formality. Any 
consideration of deductions for future contingencies (such as on the basis of the risk of 
mortality by reference to age and health) as part of an assessment of the losses suffered by 
a complainant following Hodgson would require what I consider would be disproportionately 
complex submissions on the amount of compensation which ought to be awarded or how it 
should be calculated which would be contrary to the minimum formality of the ombudsman 
service’s scheme and its purpose to quickly and fairly resolve disputes. To that end it would 
appear inappropriate to adopt the approach in Hodgson to deductions as described above in 
the circumstances. 
Another reason why I do not consider it appropriate to follow Hodgson in Mr L’s complaint is 
that the judge did not deduct an amount for the maintenance and upkeep of the panels. He 
discussed the replacement of the inverter, however he didn’t know the cost, and suspected 
that it wouldn’t be a considerable amount. Our service has previously seen this issue raised 
on multiple cases, and the energy saving trust website sets out it is likely that the inverter will 
need to be replaced within the lifetime of the panels. 
The energy saving trust website also states that panels should be cleaned to ensure optimal 
performance. So, I am satisfied that maintenance costs are likely if Mr L wants to receive the 
full benefits from his panels.  In summary where Hodgson makes a deduction for the benefits 
of the panels over their lifetime but makes no allowance for likely costs I consider it fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to award compensation which would put Mr L, so far as is 
possible, in a ‘cost-neutral’ position such that he is not put in a position whereby he will be 
unable to meet unexpected financial costs arising from the solar panel system in future 
where that would – in my view – lead to a continuation of unfairness arising out of the unfair 
relationship. 
Mr L entered the relationship with Creation on the basis that once the loan was repaid, from 
that point onwards any benefits would then accrue to him, and I don’t think it’s unreasonable 
for him to expect this, nor do I think these benefits amount to a windfall as Kerrigan suggests 
is to be avoided when considering a remedy for an unfair relationship. When a consumer 
takes out a loan to pay for goods over a certain period and the loan is repaid, it is entirely 
reasonable for that consumer to enjoy the benefits of their purchase in the years after the 
loan is repaid. These benefits will also cover the ongoing costs associated with the upkeep 
of the panels, meaning he won’t be left out of pocket. 
Creation have failed to explain how applying Hodgson would produce a fairer outcome and 
has failed to engage on the merits of the complaint generally
While the ombudsman service’s remit is inquisitorial, as per our procedural rules on 
evidence in DISP I can also take into account that Creation have so far failed to properly 
engage with the ombudsman service about the merits of the complaint to explain the 
particular aspects of the methodology in Hodgson which it considers ought to be taken into 
account with reference to any evidence or submissions it has, and why the ombudsman 
service’s methodology for redress as set out in its provisional decision would be unfair in the 
circumstances of Mr L’s complaint.  
I asked each party to let me have any further information that they’d like me to consider by 
14 September 2023. 
Mis-sold Claims Assist confirmed they had nothing further to add.
Creation requested an extension of time of seven days which I granted in the circumstances, 
but it failed to respond by 21 September 2023 in any event. As per our service’s procedural 
rules at DISP 3.5.9R (3) and 3.5.14R (1) I am entitled to reach a decision based on the 
information which has been supplied by the parties so far and can proceed with my 
consideration of the complaint where Creation has failed to respond by the deadline I set for 
providing further information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’m satisfied that 

Mr L brought his complaint about Creation’s failure to accept the s.75 claim, and an 
unfair relationship in accordance with s.140A of the CCA, in time with reference to 
our jurisdiction rules on time limits for bringing complaints under DISP 2.8. 

In relation to the s.75 claim element of the complaint, Mr L has brought this in time 
where he complained within six years of the date when Creation failed to accept that 
claim.

However, it was fair for Creation not to accept the s.75 claim on the basis that the 
claim against Creation under s.75 is likely to have been extinguished where the 
relevant limitation period for a claim against A for misrepresentation is likely to have 
expired taking into account the LA. Therefore, I do not uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.

In relation to the s.140A unfair relationship element of the complaint, the event 
complained of for the purposes of DISP 2.8.2R (2)(a) was the lender’s participation in 
an unfair relationship in having and asserting rights as lender. Further, in 
circumstances where I consider the unfair relationship to have ended when the 
agreement between Mr L and Creation came to an end and taking into account the 
approach of the Court’s to limitation periods under the LA to the extent appropriate, I 
am satisfied Mr L brought this aspect of his complaint within six years of the event 
complained of. 

The representations made to Mr L when he entered into the contract to buy the 
panels were false and mis-leading and induced him to enter into the contract. 
Therefore, I am satisfied that a court would likely conclude that due the 
misrepresentations made by A (acting as agent of Creation) a court would be likely to 
conclude the relationship between Mr L and Creation was unfair under s.140A. It 
follows that I do not consider Creation have acted in a fair and reasonable way in all 
the circumstances of the complaint concerning the unfair relationship and uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. 

I have considered the redress methodology applied by the courts in the case of 
Hodgson but do not consider it is appropriate to apply it to this case for the reasons 
which I provided in my correspondence of 7 September 2023 as incorporated into 
this final decision.   
 

It is appropriate for Creation to work out the likely benefits of the solar panels over a 
period of 10 years, based on actual date where available and estimations where not, 
and ensure that Mr L pays no more than that. 
As neither party has provided any further information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I 
see no reason to depart from those findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Creation to 

Calculate the total payments (the deposit and monthly repayments) Mr L made towards 
the solar panel system up until he repaid the loan - A

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received up until he repaid 
the loan - B

Use B to recalculate what Mr L should have paid each month towards the loan over that 
period and reimburse Mr L the difference, between what he actually paid (A), and what 
he should have paid, applying 8% simple interest to any overpayment from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement - C

Use his bills and Fit statements, to work out the benefits he received for the period 
between the loan being paid off and the original loan term - D

Deduct D from the amount Mr L paid off the loan – E

Calculate 8% interest on E, applied from the date he paid off the loan until the date of 
settlement – F

Reimburse C + F
I also think the way Creation handled Mr L’s complaint has caused him trouble and upset, 
and an award of £150 is appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Sarah Holmes
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4349079
--------------------------

The complaint
Miss C complains about damage caused to her home during the installation of a boiler paid 
for with finance provided by Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss C took out a regulated fixed sum loan with Creation to pay for the 
supply and installation of a boiler by a third party, which I will call X. It is not in dispute that 
the installation was botched, and that as a result damage was caused to Miss C’s home. Her 
kitchen cupboard was damaged, brick dust was spread all over the kitchen, and the 
replacement of the flue caused damage to the roof, which in turn caused water to leak into 
her bedroom.
Miss C spent about three months trying to resolve the matter with X, getting nowhere, before 
she lost confidence in X. In May she asked Creation to compensate her under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1975 (which makes the provider of credit liable for a breach of 
contract by the supplier of goods and services paid for with credit).
On 22 September 2022, Creation upheld her claim and offered her £1,250. Believing that the 
repair work would cost her much more than that, Miss C brought this claim to our service. 
She provided photos of the damage, and evidence about what it would cost to repair it. In 
response, Creation told us that Miss C had stopped communicating with X, and had refused 
to allow X to carry  out a site visit to inspect the damage and see what work needed to be 
done.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He was satisfied that the installation had not been 
carried out with reasonable care and skill, and that Creation was liable for that under section 
75. He thought it was reasonable of Miss C to want the remedial work to be carried out by 
another company instead of X, and so he thought that Creation should pay for the cost of 
that work. Based on the quotes and other evidence provided, he thought that a reasonable 
estimate of the total cost would be £2,567.45, plus another £29.99 for a broom which X’s 
engineer had broken during his visit. He did not agree that Creation was liable for a garden 
gate which had been damaged by the wind after the engineer had left it open, nor was it 
liable for some customer service failings by X after the installation.
Miss C accepted that opinion, except that she argued that she should also be compensated 
for the time she had spent cleaning up her kitchen and writing to and phoning X and 
Creation about this matter. She calculated an hourly rate for this. However, our investigator 
did not agree to recommend that Creation pay for this.
Creation did not reply at all. After chasing Creation for a response to his opinion, the 
investigator referred this case for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague did.
Although Creation has not denied that the installation was botched, I have still satisfied 
myself that this is the case by referring to the photos Miss C took of her kitchen. The photos 
make it very clear that the work was not carried out with reasonable care and skill, and 
I have no doubt that this is what has caused the leak.
I agree with our investigator’s view that the damage to the garden gate is too remote from 
the contract to install the boiler to hold Creation liable for that damage under section 75. But 
there is no reason why it should not pay for the rest of the damage (including the broom).
In his decision, our investigator carefully itemised how he arrived at the total repair cost of 
£2,597.44. I don’t need to repeat all of that here; it is enough for me to say that I agree with 
it, and I gratefully adopt it.
I will not award Miss C an hourly rate for her cleaning and correspondence. But I do think 
that it is right that I should award her some compensation for her general inconvenience 
arising from the damage that was caused to her property, and especially for the leak in her 
roof. I think £500 is fair. (I would normally write a provisional decision about that first, to give 
Creation an opportunity to object before I make a final decision. But since Creation did not 
respond to the investigator’s decision, I don’t think it is likely that it would have responded to 
my provisional decision either, and so I have chosen to proceed directly to issuing this final 
decision.)
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to pay 
Miss C:

£2,597.44 for the cost of repairing the damage to her home, together with simple 
interest on that sum at the rate of eight percent a year from 22 September 2022 
(being the date of Creation’s final response letter) to the date of settlement; and

£500 for her inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4351408
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Creation 
Consumer Finance Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
Mr T is being represented in this complaint by Mr D. However, for ease of reference, I’ll refer 
to any comments or actions by Mr D as if they were made/done by Mr T.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr T was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Creation. He paid an advance payment of £800, and the agreement was for £8,398 over 52 
months; with 51 monthly payments of £223.56 and a final payment of £233.56. At the time of 
supply, the car was around seven and a half years old and had done 38,574 miles.
Mr T returned the car to the supplying dealership on 15 February 2023 as the engine felt 
sluggish and the engine management light (EML) was illuminated. The dealership cleared 
the fault codes and carried out a 56-mile road test. The car was returned to Mr T, having 
done 39,178 miles – 604 miles since supply.
However, the car was returned to the dealership shortly afterwards, as the EML had come 
on again and the car had gone into limp mode. The dealership recorded the return mileage 
as 39,178 miles, meaning Mr T had driven the car for less than a mile before the fault 
reoccurred. The dealership again cleared the fault codes and returned the car back to Mr T 
on 25 February 2023, this time after a 279-mile road test.
The car went back to the dealership in early March, where again fault codes were cleared, 
and the car returned to Mr T. The dealership says that after this repair, Mr T agreed to 
monitor the car and, if the fault reoccurred, then he would bring the car back for further 
investigation. The dealership also says that, as Mr T signed an acceptance of repair, the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) allows them to continue to conduct any necessary repairs 
to the car.
However, the fault reoccurred, and Mr T didn’t take it back to the dealership. He continued to 
drive the car and, as long as he kept below 3,000RPM, it wouldn’t go into limp mode. The 
dealership had offered Mr T the option to take the car to a local garage, as he lived over 200 
miles from the dealership, which Mr T did. And a diagnostic scan revealed faults with the fuel 
injectors, air flow circuits, air intake temperature sensors, and the turbocharger sensors.
Mr T had raised his complaint with Creation, asking to reject the car. But Creation said the 
car had been repaired by the dealership. So, Mr T brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a persistent fault with the car, which made it not of a 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. And, as there had been multiple attempts 
at repair, Mr T was now able to reject the car. And she thought Creation should pay Mr T 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’d been caused.
After the investigator had issued her view, Mr T explained that the car was due to have an 
MOT in August 2023, and it was expected the car would fail this. He was concerned that, 
without the car, he would need to pay around £100 a week to get to work. The investigator 
amended her view to say that, in these circumstances, and with proof supplied by Mr T, then 
Creation should reimburse these travel costs.
Creation didn’t agree with the investigator. While they didn’t object to the finding that the fault 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, they said that Mr T had 
agreed to return the car to the dealership if the fault reoccurred. Which he didn’t do.
Creation said that, given this, the CRA allowed the dealership to repair the car and that Mr 
T’s agreement for this “is something which cannot be taken away once agreed.” As such, 
this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I’ve reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I haven’t commented on any specific point, it’s because I don’t 
believe it’s affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint I’ve had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulator’s rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means we’re 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car should’ve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasn’t, as the supplier of goods, Creation are responsible. What’s 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicle’s 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, it’s assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Creation can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that it’s for Mr T to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr T took possession of it, or that the car wasn’t 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, it’d be fair and 
reasonable to ask Creation to put this right.
In this instance, it’s not disputed there was a problem with the EML light keep coming on, nor 
that this fault was present when the car was supplied to Mr T. As such, I’m satisfied that I 
don’t need to consider the merits of this issue within my decision. Instead, I’ll focus on what I 
think Creation should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Section 24(5) of the CRA says “a consumer who has … the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations – (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract.” This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs – the first attempted repair is the single 
chance at repair. What’s more, if a different fault arises after a previous repair, even if those 
faults aren’t related, the single chance of repair has already happened – it’s not a single 
chance of repair per fault.
The CRA is clear that, if the single chance at repair fails, as was the case here, then Mr T 
has the right of rejection. 
I appreciate Creation’s comments that Mr T had told the dealership he’d take the car back 
for further repairs if the fault reoccurred. Section 23 (6) of the CRA states “a consumer who 
requires or agrees to the repair of goods cannot require the trader to replace them, or 
exercise the short-term right to reject, without giving the trader a reasonable time to replace 
them.” However, it isn’t the short-term right to reject that’s being considered here, but the 
right to reject after a failed repair. 
While Mr T may’ve said he’d bring the car back to the dealership if it failed for a third time, he 
didn’t do so. So, the car wasn’t presented for repair, which I’m satisfied means that Mr T 
didn’t agree to a third repair. And there’s nothing in the CRA which says that Mr T saying he 
would do something in the event of another event occurring i.e., he would return the car for 
repair if it failed again, is legally binding and he therefore must do so.
As such, for the reasons stated, I remain satisfied that Mr T has the right to reject the car.
Despite the quality issues, Mr T has been able to use the car while it’s been in his 
possession. And it’s my understanding that, while it was being repaired, he was also 
provided with a courtesy car to keep him mobile. Because of this, I think it’s only fair that he 
pays for this usage. So, I won’t be asking Creation to refund any of the payments he’s made.
Mr T has also raised the issue of the car failing its MOT and the alternate travel expenses he 
would incur as a result. The investigator has said that, in these circumstances, and with 
proof of his expenses, then Creation should refund these. The publicly available MOT record 
shows the car failed its MOT on 25 August 2023 due to an issue with a headlight, and not 
something connected with the fault with the car. The MOT record also shows that this issue 
was fixed the same day, and the car passed the MOT. Which would mean that Mr T was still 
able to drive it.
As such, as the circumstances in which the investigator said Mr T’s travel expenses should 
be refunded haven’t occurred, I won’t be expecting Creation to refund any alternate travel 
costs. 
However, it’s clear that Mr T has been severely inconvenienced by having to drive a car that 
cannot go over 3,000RPM without it going into limp mode. And by having to take the car back 
to the dealership on multiple occasions for it to be repaired, and by these repairs being 
unsuccessful. So, I think Creation should compensate him for this. The investigator had 
recommended Creation pay him £250, which is in line with what I would’ve directed had no 
recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt this as part of my 
final decision.
Therefore, if they haven’t already done so, Creation should:

end the agreement with nothing more to pay;

collect the car at no cost to Mr T;

remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr T’s credit file;

refund the £800 advance payment Mr T paid;

apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refund, calculated from the date Mr T made 
the payment to the date of the refund†; and

pay Mr T an additional £250 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasn’t of a satisfactory quality.
†HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax they’ve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr T’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited. And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4358078
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains that he was initially approved for credit with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
following a soft search but when he made a full application he was declined, and a hard 
search was left on his credit file. Mr H wants Creation to remove the hard search to correct 
his credit rating.
What happened
Mr H wanted to purchase an item from a retailer who was offering interest free credit with 
Creation for 12 months. He completed an initial application online and a soft search was 
carried out. Following this Mr H was initially approved for credit.
When Mr H made his full application for credit, it was declined. Mr H complained to Creation. 
He said he had felt humiliated and embarrassed in store and he wanted the hard credit 
search removed to enable his credit rating to go back to its previous level.
In its final response, Creation said it wasn’t obliged to disclose the exact reason why it had 
refused the application but said that in this case Mr H’s application did not meet its internal 
lending criteria. Creation said that it didn’t have to disclose what makes up its internal 
lending criteria and could not give Mr H any more information. Creation said that the 
application involved a hard credit search and that this would appear on Mr H’s credit file. It 
said that Mr H was given prior notification that the hard search would be left on his credit file 
subject to submitting an application.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.  He said he would not 
have continued with the application if the soft search hadn’t shown that he was likely to be 
approved for credit. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They asked Creation to provide evidence of the 
reason for decline and the data supporting this to show why the lending criteria hadn’t been 
met and that the decision to decline had been reached fairly. Creation provided the reason 
for decline but failed to provide the data supporting it. The investigator said that Creation 
hadn’t been able to show that Mr H was treated fairly during the application process and 
awarded compensation of £100. 
Creation didn’t agree. It said it had provided the reason for the application being declined 
and wasn’t able to provide any further information.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has said that he understands that Creation isn’t obliged to provided specific reasons for 
declining his application. But he’s understandably frustrated because the initial soft search 
indicated that he would be approved for credit. He’s also concerned about the impact that 
the hard search has had on his credit file.
I’ve reviewed the letter which Creation sent to Mr H explaining the reasons for declining his 
application. It said that Mr H’s application didn’t meet its internal lending criteria. Creation 
doesn’t have to disclose its internal lending criteria to Mr H as this is considered to be 
business sensitive information. 
However, Creation does have to show to this service that it declined the application fairly. 
This service asked Creation to provide information from its lending department indicating the 
exact reason the application failed. This service also explained to Creation that the 
information requested wouldn’t be shared with Mr H because it is business sensitive 
information.
Creation provided a response to the request from this service. I’ve reviewed this but I don’t 
think what Creation has provided is sufficient to show that it acted fairly when it declined Mr 
H’s application. This is because Creation hasn’t supplied any data to support the reason it 
provided. So, I can’t be certain that the application was correctly declined. 
Because of this, I agree with the investigators view that Creation should pay compensation 
to Mr H.
I appreciate that Mr H wants the hard search removed. However, I can’t fairly ask Creation to 
do this. This is because, having reviewed the information that Creation provided to Mr H 
during the application process, I’m satisfied that it was made clear to Mr H that a hard search 
would be carried out if he submitted an application. I understand that Mr H feels frustrated 
that the initial soft search indicated that his application would be successful. However, I 
haven’t seen anything to suggest that Creation guaranteed that the full credit application 
would be successful. So, I can’t say that Creation has made an error here.
Putting things right
For the reasons I’ve given, I’m not persuaded that Creation has provided evidence to show 
that it acted fairly when it declined Mr H’s application. I’m therefore requiring Creation to pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4362598
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr F complains about the missed payment information recorded by Creation Consumer 
Finance Ltd, for his credit card account.
What happened
In August 2020, Mr F got a brand new mobile telephone device from a high street retailer. To 
pay for the device, Mr F used his credit card with Creation, who offered a six month interest 
free deal on the purchase.
At the end of the six month period, Mr F hadn’t settled the purchase price of the device. So, 
Creation added interest and started to take a monthly direct debit from Mr F’s bank account. 
Mr F says he noticed a payment leave his account, so paid Creation the full cost of the 
device. He also complained to Creation and said they had breached the terms and 
conditions of the deal, which say they should have warned him the six month interest free 
period was ending. Creation responded to say they did put Mr F on notice, but they didn’t 
receive any payment from him, before the expiry of the interest free period.
Although Mr F had paid the cost of the device, he didn’t make any payments towards the 
interest. So, the balance owed to Mr F’s account increased over the following months. And in 
December 2022, Creation passed on missed payment information about the credit card to 
credit reference agencies.
In February 2023, Mr F contacted us and asked us to look into a complaint about the 
warnings he says Creation should have given him. He also complained that the information 
recorded on his credit file was inaccurate.
One of our investigators looked into Mr F’s complaint and found that the part of his complaint 
about the warnings, had been brought to us too late. She said that under our rules, Mr F 
needed to have brought that concern to us within six months of Creation’s final response 
letter. Both Mr F and Creation accepted that we couldn’t look at the first part of Mr F’s case.
However, the investigator was able to look at the missed payment information Creation had 
recorded on Mr F’s credit file. She concluded that Creation hadn’t treated Mr F fairly and the 
default information should be backdated to September 2021, around the time the payments 
were missed by Mr F.
Mr F accepted the investigator’s findings about the default information. But, Creation didn’t. 
They said they needed to give Mr F time to repay the arrears on his credit card account and 
they only applied missed payment information, when all other attempts for repayment had 
failed.
The investigator didn’t change her conclusions and now Mr F’s case has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mobile telephone device was paid for using Mr F’s credit card account with Creation. 
This is a regulated form of credit, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to 
this sort of borrowing.
Creation and Mr F have agreed that the part of the complaint about the warnings given for 
the expiry of the interest free period, were brought to us out of time. So, I’ve not considered 
that as part of my decision. Instead, I’ve focussed on Mr F’s complaint about the recording of 
the default information.
The Information Commissioner’s Office (ICO) suggests lenders should default an account no 
earlier than three months after the customer first started missing payments, and no later than 
six months after the first missed payment. A lender has to tell their customer they’re 
intending apply a default, to give their customer a chance to bring the account up to date, or 
to make an arrangement to pay. 
The ICO also suggests that if an arrangement to pay is agreed between the lender and their 
customer, but the customer misses a payment, the lender can default the account 
immediately. The ICO link this to a relationship breaking down between a lender and a 
borrower. Once the account is defaulted, that marker will remain on the customer’s credit file 
for six years.
I think what the ICO says here is important to Mr F’s case, because the first missed payment 
happened long before Creation applied a default marker on Mr F’s credit file. So, I’ve thought 
more about the timescales involved to decide what is fair.
Creation’s records for Mr F’s credit card show that he repaid the cost of the device in March 
2021. I can see where this left a balance owed of around £100, because of the interest that 
Creation had applied, once the interest free period had expired. I can also see that Creation 
tried to take a Direct Debit payment the following month, but this was returned unpaid.
Furthermore, I’ve looked at Creation’s contact records with Mr F from around this time. I can 
see he told them he wouldn’t be making any further repayments, in respect of the added 
interest in March 2021.
Creation’s records show that they explained the reasons why interest had been applied to 
Mr F’s account and what would happen should any missed repayments continue. But, as 
Mr F had told them he didn’t want to pay for any added interest, a repayment arrangement or 
plan wasn’t agreed.
As Creation and Mr F were unable to agree a repayment plan, I think this meant the account 
wasn’t receiving payment. It then follows that Creation could treat the account as being in 
default within the three to six month timescale I’ve summarised.
Having considered everything, I think it was clear to Creation that the relationship with Mr F 
was at stalemate and had broken down in March 2021. I also think this was confirmed once 
Mr F had cancelled the Direct Debit and then missed a payment towards his credit card in 
the following month. 
Creation say they didn’t mark the account as being in default until December 2022, because 
they wanted to exhaust all other methods of support first. I acknowledge why Creation would 
want to help Mr F. But, for the reasons I’ve explained, I think it was clear the balance of the 
credit card account wouldn’t be paid. And I think this was very evident to Creation around six 
months after the first missed payment. 
I’ve concluded that Mr F’s relationship with Creation broke down in March 2021. So, six 
months after that is September 2021.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr F’s credit file should reflect where a default should be 
applied no earlier than three months after he first missed a payment, and no later than six 
months after that first missed repayment. So, I think it’s fair for Creation to change the date 
of the default to September 2021, with the information recorded with credit reference 
agencies.
Mr F may have repaid the outstanding balance owed to his credit card account, since he first 
referred his complaint to us. If he hasn’t, it’s likely he may still have an obligation to repay 
any balance that has accrued through the interest that’s been added.
I encourage Mr F to engage with Creation about a way to repay the outstanding balance. I 
also remind Creation of their ongoing responsibility to Mr F, to treat his financial 
circumstances with due consideration and forbearance. This may mean looking at Mr F’s 
income and expenditure, to decide an appropriate level of repayment.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Creation Consumer Finance Ltd should:

Change the date of the default information from December 2022 to September 2021, 
for the information recorded with credit reference agencies about Mr F’s credit card 
account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Creation Consumer Finance Ltd 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4365289
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr H complains about the issues he experienced in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire purchase agreement with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation). 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In May 2022, Mr H acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from Creation. 
The cash price of the car was £33,200. Mr H paid a deposit of £4,000, so the total amount 
financed on the agreement was £29,200 payable over 48 monthly repayments of £494.06 
with a final optional payment of £13,488.
Mr H said that within two weeks of acquiring the car, he experienced issues with the battery 
so had to have it replaced. Mr H said he experienced delays in receiving the logbook from 
the dealership and was told they’d lost it and had to order a new one. He said when he 
received the logbook it had the wrong name on it, and incorrect information relating to 
previous owners than what was advertised. Mr H said he didn’t receive the full-service 
history either.
Mr H also said he received poor customer service from Creation, so in August 2022 he 
complained to them about the issues with the car, the logbook and their poor service.
In November 2022, Creation provided their final response to Mr H’s complaint. Creation 
didn’t uphold the complaint because they said they weren’t provided with any evidence that 
the faults were present at the point of supply.
Mr H responded to Creation saying the main point of his complaint was that the logbook had 
the incorrect details, which could affect his insurance.
Unhappy with the response from Creation, Mr H brought his complaint to our service for 
investigation. 
In March 2023 our investigator issued their view, upholding Mr H’s complaint on the basis 
that they felt the car wasn’t of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. Our 
investigator recommended that Creation facilitate a rejection of the car, refunding his deposit 
and some monthly repayments and to pay £200 in compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.  
Mr H accepted our investigator’s view, however before Creation responded, Mr H advised 
that he’d sold the car and had settled his finance agreement. Our investigator issued a 
further view revising the redress as the car had been sold. The recommendation was as 
below:

refund Mr H’s deposit contribution of £4,000

reimburse Mr H £1,191.86 which is the difference between the settlement amount 
and the sale price of the car

reimburse Mr H the transaction fee charge amounting to £74.99

refund to Mr H, all the monthly payments for the period from 10 October 2022 to the 
date of settlement as Mr H reasonably stopped using the car at this point – if any the 
payments during this period weren’t paid, then those payments should be waived;

pay Mr H 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement

pay Mr H a further amount of £200 for any trouble and upset that’s been caused due 
to the faulty goods

remove any adverse information from Mr H’s credit file in relation to the agreement (if 
any).
Mr H accepted the revised recommendations, but Creation didn’t respond. So, the complaint 
has been passed on to me for a final decision.
I sent Mr H and Creation my provisional decision on 18 September 2023. I explained why I 
didn’t think the complaint should be upheld. The key parts of my provisional findings are 
copied below:
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I’ve thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators’ rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Creation is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that “the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described”. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality.
 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicle’s history. 
Here, the car was acquired used, with 32,821 miles. So, I think it’s fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be less than that of a new, and less 
road-worn car, and that parts of it may require maintenance or servicing sooner than if it was 
a new car.
Having said that, the car was priced at £33,200 which isn’t insignificant. It also wasn’t a 
particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair to say that a reasonable person would expect it 
could be used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided I’m persuaded there were some issues with the car. The 
images provided by Mr H persuades me the issues were relating to the fault codes.  Having 
considered the car had some issues, I’ve considered whether it was of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply. I’ve also considered whether Creation needs to do anything in relation to 
the incorrect information on the logbook.
logbook
 
Mr H told our case handler that he wasn’t happy that he was provided with a logbook with 
the wrong details on it. Mr H said the previous owner’s information was incorrect as was the 
details of the current owner. Although I can see that the logbook was in a different name 
from Mr H’s, I’ve not seen any evidence of the number of previous owners to determine that 
it was incorrect. Having said that, Mr H advised he was reluctant to return the logbook as he 
didn’t trust an accurate one would be reissued. 
I think it’s reasonable that Mr H should give the dealer an opportunity to resolve the issue, 
but in this instance, it appears Mr H didn’t do so. In any case as the car has now been sold 
on, I don’t see that Creation can do anything further about this issue. So, in the 
circumstances I won’t be instructing Creation to take any action in relation to this issue.
satisfactory quality.
In their view, our investigator concluded that on balance they believed the car wasn’t of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply, and arrived at that outcome from the information on 
file. However, I’m not in agreement with our investigator’s outcome, because I’ve seen no 
evidence of the faults. 
Although Mr H has provided images of fault codes he says were identified by a local garage. 
The images weren’t accompanied by specific vehicle information or dates. Mr H appears to 
have taken photos of the fault codes screen but hasn’t provided any expert diagnostics or 
commentary about the issues from the garage. I also have no expert report advising what 
the issues were or that they’d been investigated.
The only expert commentary I’ve seen is from an email sent from the local garage in March 
2023, advising they couldn’t pinpoint the problem due to an incompatibility with their 
equipment and that the issue may be software related. However, this in itself doesn’t confirm 
that a problem exists.
Mr H said the fault codes were identified in September 2022, however during a phone call 
with our case handler, in December 2022, Mr H said the car was running fine and was in 
immaculate condition, but that he was scared to drive it. Mr H told our case handler that the 
weight of the claim wasn’t the quality, but about the logbook being recorded in a different 
name. And in response to Creation’s final response Mr H sent an email to Creation advising 
that he wasn’t concerned about the faults with the car, more that the car was losing value 
and that the logbook had the incorrect details. Having considered this, I think there’s some 
conflicting information over whether Mr H considered the car to be faulty.
I also haven’t seen any evidence to support what Mr H has said about not using the car. 
During the phone conversation with our case handler in December 2022, Mr H said he only 
used the car to keep the battery running. Mr H said he’d also purchased another car 
because he wasn’t using this one. 
The latest MOT information from 20 April 2023 shows a recorded mileage of 41,394, which 
is about 10,000 miles more than when it was supplied to him.  As the evidence provided 
shows that Mr H sold the car on 25 April 2023, I’m satisfied that Mr H had fair use of the car 
over the 12 months that he owned it. It also supports that the car was running without any 
significant faults.
All things considered, and from the information provided, although I can see some fault 
codes were present, I don’t have any evidence to show the codes were investigated and 
verified. And based on what Mr H has told our investigator, and the usage of the car whilst in 
his possession, I’m persuaded the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr 
H. So, I won’t be asking Creation to take any action in relation to this complaint.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
Creation responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision. Mr H responded to 
say he had nothing further to add. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or information for me to consider in 
relation to my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from it.
I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the 
reasons as set out in my provisional decision, I’m satisfied that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr H. So, my final decision is the same. 
I recognise that this decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr H, however I can assure him 
that I’ve considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that my provisional 
findings are fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what’s fair and reasonable, my final 
decision is that I don’t uphold Mr H’s complaint about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4370113
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr R complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd reported adverse information on his 
credit file unfairly.
What happened
In November 2017 Mr R applied for a credit account with Creation. He used the account 
regularly to make purchases from a retailer.
In February 2022 Mr R purchased goods from the retailer and charged these to his Creation 
account. The agreement had a special offer date of 25 August 2022, meaning that if the 
purchase price was settled in full by that date there would be no interest charged.
At the time of purchase, Mr R had a credit limit of £1500 on the Creation account. The 
purchase price of the goods was £1500.
Mr R says that at the time of purchase of the goods, he made a specific enquiry about 
whether, if he didn’t settle the balance within the special offer period, there would be any 
impact on his credit file. Mr R says he was told by the retailer that he wouldn’t exceed his 
credit limit in these circumstances and there would be no impact on his credit file. Mr R says 
that in reliance on that advice he entered into the agreement.
Mr R didn’t settle the balance within the special offer period. He started making monthly 
repayments at the end of the special offer period. These payments included interest.
Later that year, Mr R applied for a loan. He wasn’t offered the rate he expected and on 
making enquiries, was advised that his credit file had ben impacted by an over credit marker 
from Creation.
Mr R complained to Creation. He said he’d never been advised that he had exceeded his 
credit limit. He felt that Creation had reported incorrectly on his credit file.
Creation issued a final response in which it said that Mr R had missed the special offer date 
and that interest had been correctly applied to his account as per the terms and conditions of 
the agreement. It said that the interest applied to the account had taken Mr R over his credit 
limit of £1500 and that this had been correctly reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr R remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that under section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, Creation could be held responsible for statements made by the merchant to 
Mr R prior to the point of supply. The investigator said she thought Mr R’s testimony about 
what the merchant had said was plausible and said that if Mr R had been given correct 
information about the consequences of not settling the balance within the special offer 
period, he would likely have made a payment towards the balance to avoid going over the 
credit limit and having adverse information reported on his credit file. The investigator said 
that Creation should remove the over limit marker from Mr R’s credit file and pay 
compensation of £100.
Creation didn’t agree. It said it hadn’t reported incorrect information to the credit reference 
agencies. Creation said that Mr R was aware that if the balance of £1500 wasn’t settled 
within the special offer period, interest charges of £596 would be applied meaning that the 
total amount payable would increase to £2096. Creation said that if Mr R had the intention 
not to settle the account within the special offer period, he should’ve taken into consideration 
that the total amount payable would be higher than his credit limit.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to be clear about what Mr R is complaining about here. He isn’t 
complaining about the application of interest to the account, or the amount, or the balance 
owed. His complaint is that he was told by the merchant prior to entering into the agreement 
that if he didn’t settle the account within the special offer period, he wouldn’t exceed his 
credit limit and there wouldn’t be any impact on his credit file.
The advice given to Mr R by the merchant was incorrect. Creation hasn’t made an error by 
adding interest to the account. With the addition of the interest, the balance has exceeded 
Mr R’s credit limit. A provider of credit is under an obligation to report accurate information to 
the credit reference agencies. In this case, it would be accurate to report that Mr R had 
exceeded his credit limit.
However, the whole point of Mr R’s complaint is that he was told by the merchant that there 
would be no impact on his credit file if he didn’t settle the balance within the special offer 
period. Creation has said that it can’t comment on what the merchant did or didn’t say. But 
what the merchant said is relevant because under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, Creation can be held liable for untrue statements made by the merchant.
I therefore need to determine whether its more likely than not that the merchant made an 
untrue statement to Mr R in the way that Mr R has described.
There’s no record of what was said. So I’ve looked at what I think are other relevant factors 
here. 
I’ve reviewed Mr R’s credit account with Creation. He’s held this account since 2017 and it’s 
been well managed. Mr R has chosen not to to settle the balance within special offer periods 
in the past so he knows that interest will be added, and he’s always made the correct 
payments. In his written and verbal communications with this service, Mr R presents as 
financially astute. So whilst I can’t be certain of exactly what was said in the discussion 
between Mr R and the merchant prior to the point of supply, I am persuaded by the clear and 
consistent testimony that Mr R has provided about the questions that he asked and the 
responses given by the merchant. I think it’s more likely than not that the merchant told Mr R 
that there would be no impact on his credit file if he didn’t settle within the special offer 
period. If the merchant hadn’t made this statement, I don’t think Mr R would’ve acted the way 
he did. I think he would have either settled the balance within the special offer period or 
taken steps to make a payment to reduce the balance so that the interest didn’t cause him to 
exceed the credit limit and impact his credit file.
In conclusion, I’m persuaded that the merchant gave incorrect advice to Mr R which caused 
him to think that if he didn’t settle within the special offer period his credit file would be 
impacted. In the circumstances, Creation is responsible for the merchant’s statement under 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Putting things right
In section 56 cases, this service would look to pout the consumer back in the position they 
were in had the statement not been made. But it isn’t always possible to do that.
Mr R has said that the over limit marker impacted on his ability to obtain other credit. 
However, I haven’t seen evidence to prove that this was solely down to Creation’s marker. 
Lending decisions are influenced by a range of factors and without clear evidence that it was 
solely Creations marker that caused Mr R to be offered a different rate of interest to that 
expected, I can’t hold Creation liable for any losses incurred by Mr R as a result.
That said, and having found liability under section 56, I think Creation has acted unfairly here 
by reporting the over credit marker to the credit reference agencies. So I think the marker 
should be removed from Mr R’s credit file.
Mr R has explained the impact that this has had on him. He’s been caused frustration 
because of Creation’s response to his complaint, because Creation didn’t deal with the issue 
raised by Mr R about the incorrect information given to him by the merchant. This has 
caused Mr R distress and inconvenience, for which I think Creation should pay 
compensation. I think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Consumer Finance Ltd must:
Remove the marker from Mr R’s credit file
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4376749
--------------------------

The complaint
Ms J complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd didn’t provide her with the information 
she needed to prevent interest being charged on her purchase and then unlawfully took a 
payment from her account. She says that the credit agreement contained onerous terms that 
weren’t brought to her attention.
What happened
On 4 August 2020, Ms J took out a 0% interest loan when buying an item from a retailer. 
She says she was told she had a year to make the payment for the item and if she did this 
no interest would be charged. Ms J asked the retailer for a copy of the agreement terms and 
conditions but was told it didn’t provide these and she could print them from the website. 
Ms J says she didn’t receive any communication about her agreement except for a letter in 
February 2021 stating that there was a further three-month extension available to people 
who were impacted by the pandemic. She says the letter didn’t state when she needed to 
repay the loan and  the only dates on the letter were in the top corner stating ‘End of BNPL: 
4/08/21 First Payment Date 04 Sept 2021’. She says she didn’t know what BNPL meant and 
assumed the payment deadline was 4 September 2021. Ms J says she paid the full cost of 
the item on 25 August 2021 thinking this was in time to avoid any interest. However, a 
further payment of £102.84 was then taken from her account by direct debit. She contacted 
Creation to ask for this money back, but Creation refused and demanded more interest from 
her.
Ms J says the credit agreement terms were onerous and at no time where they brought to 
her attention. She noted that Creation said she had online statements, but she hadn’t 
accessed her online account. Ms J says that at least one letter should have been sent by 
post to remind her of the payment deadline and terms of the repayment.
Creation issued a final response dated 21 June 2023. It said that the retail staff were trained 
to offer a copy of the credit agreement at the point of sale and that if Ms J chose not to take 
this, she would have been told she could view and download this through her online account 
manager. It said that the item Ms J bought had a Special Offer Date (SOD) of 4 August 2021 
and she would need to make payment by this date to avoid interest being charged. It said 
her June and July 2021 statements reflected the SOD expiry date. As Ms J didn’t make the 
payment by the SOD expiry date it said interest had been charged in line with the agreement 
terms and conditions. It noted that it received notification from Ms J‘s bank in September 
2021 to say her direct debit had been cancelled and that as of the date of the letter her 
account was in arrears. 
Our investigator didn’t uphold this complaint. He noted that Ms J said she was told when she 
purchased the item that there would be no interest to pay if she repaid the amount due within 
12 months. As the item was bought on 4 August 2020 this meant repayment was due by 4 
August 2021. As Ms J didn’t pay the amount due until later in August the interest was 
charged. He noted Ms J’s comment about not receiving the terms and conditions but said 
Ms J was guided to these being online and had agreed to them. 
Our investigator said that Creation had posted Ms J’s account statements online and these 
set out that the SOD came to an end on 4 August 2021. He said Ms J had a direct debit set 
up and a payment was taken in September 2021, but this wasn’t all of the interest due and a 
balance of £290.71 remained. As Ms J cancelled her direct debit Creation wasn’t then able 
to take any further payments and as the payments weren’t made, he didn’t think that 
Creation was wrong to record adverse information on Ms J’s credit file.
Ms J didn’t agree with our investigator’s view. She said that although she knew that she had 
12 months to make her repayment when she bought the item it wasn’t reasonable to expect 
her to remember this date and she should have been contacted by Creation about this. Ms J 
said that she wasn’t provided with a copy of the agreement or its terms and conditions 
despite requesting this and that she was told that Creation would be in touch, but this didn’t 
happen. She noted that she didn’t receive any notification from Creation about registering for 
the online portal until 3 June 2021 and after doing this she received an email dated 21 July 
2021 advising her to log on to the online portal and confirming her payment amount of 
£1,580.57 and the due payment date of 4 September 2021. She said she relied on this 
information and made the full payment before the 4 September 2021 payment date. Ms J 
explained she had the money available and had she been told payment was required before 
4 August 2021 or interest would be added then she would have made the payment at that 
time.
Ms J said the payment taken by Creation on 4 September 2021 was for unlawful interest and 
while she raised a complaint at the time she wasn’t contacted until April 2023 when Creation 
was trying to claim further interest and charges. Ms J said that Creation unfairly applied 
adverse information to her credit file and because of the damage to her credit rating she paid 
what she considered to be unlawful interest and charges of £520.03 on 9 September 2023.
Ms J referred to several pieces of legislation. She said that Creation was required to 
communicate with her in a plain and intelligible language and that communication must be 
clear, comprehensive and non-misleading. She said the email she received on 21 July 2021 
was misleading and based on this she made the payment on the date she believed would 
result in no interest being charged. She said she hadn’t been provided with her account 
statements by email.
Ms J wanted Creation to remove the negative markers from her credit file, refund the interest 
and late fees of £520.03 and compensate her for her time spent dealing with this issue.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J has referred to several pieces of legislation in her response to our investigator’s view. I 
would like to confirm that when considering a complaint, while I take all relevant rules and 
regulations into account my decision is based on what I consider fair and reasonable given 
the unique circumstances of the complaint. While I may not have commented on each 
individual point Ms J has raised, I can assure her that I have taken all the evidence provided 
in this complaint into account and my reasoning below focuses on the key points that have 
led to my decision.
Ms J raised a previous complaint with Creation about her missing the SOD and interest 
being applied. Creation issued a final response letter dated 27 August 2021 in which it 
confirmed the SOD of 4 August 2021 and said that two statements had been made available 
online reminding her of this date. It said that as payment was not made by the SOD, interest 
became due.
In 2023, Ms J raised a further complaint with Creation about not receiving a reminder to 
make her payment and not being provided with a copy of the credit agreement. She said the 
terms and conditions of the credit agreement were unenforceable and the arrears incorrect. 
Creation responded to these complaint points in its final response letter dated 21 June 2023 
and Ms J referred her complaint to this service in July 2023. It is these complaint points that I 
have considered in this decision.
Ms J bought an item on 4 August 2020. She has explained that she was offered interest free 
finance. It isn’t my role to say whether an agreement is enforceable but to consider whether 
Creation has done anything wrong in its dealings with Ms J and whether Ms J has been 
treated fairly. In this case, as Ms J signed the credit agreement it is reasonable to accept 
that she agreed to its terms. 
Ms J said that she asked for a copy of the terms and conditions when she bought the item 
and while she said in response to our investigator’s view that she was told Creation would 
contact her, in her initial complaint she said she was told by the retailer to go online and print 
the terms and conditions. As Ms J signed the agreement with the retailer, I find it reasonable 
to accept she was happy with this approach to accessing the terms and conditions. Had she 
done this and decided she no longer wanted the agreement she could have exercised her 
right to withdraw.
Ms J has said that when she entered the agreement, she was told that she would have 12 
months interest free. Her complaint is that she wasn’t then contacted by Creation after 
entering the agreement, to give her notice of the payment date and that interest would be 
charged if payment wasn’t made before 4 August 2021. She said it wasn’t reasonable to 
expect her to remember the SOD a year on without any contact or reminders. She further 
states that the correspondence she did receive (a letter in February regarding extensions for 
those struggling due to the pandemic) and an email dated 21 July 2021, following her online 
registration suggested that she needed to make her payment by 4 September 2021, to 
prevent the interest being charged. She says had she been made aware the payment was 
due by 4 August 2021 and the consequences of not making this she would have made the 
payment at that time.
Ms J made the full payment for the item in August 2021 and Creation has confirmed receipt 
of the full payment on 27 August. Given this, and her testimony, I find it reasonable to accept 
that she thought she had made the payment within the interest free period. But, while I 
appreciate this maybe what Ms J believed to be the case, I have to consider whether she 
had been made reasonably aware that the payment was due by 4 August 2021.
In this case, I find that Creation did make available sufficient information for Ms J. This is 
because Ms J was told at inception that the interest free period was 12 months. Had she 
forgotten when the 12-month period ended then she could have contacted Creation about 
this. While I note Ms J said she should have been emailed her account statements, 
Creation’s system notes refer to the statement setting delivery method as ‘WEB’. I 
understand that Ms J may not have realised she had statements available in the first months 
of the agreement and I note her comment that she did not receive any emails from Creation 
notifying her to register on to the online portal and to view the account statements until 3 
June 2021. But, at this point I think it would have been reasonable for Ms J to register online 
and access her account. 
Ms J said she registered to the online portal and was sent an email on 21 July 2021. I have 
looked at this and it said that her latest statement dated 14 July 2021 was available to view 
online. Based on the information provided, I find it reasonable to accept that Ms J was made 
aware of how to access her account statements and as she had registered in July 2021, she 
was able to do this. Had Ms J accessed her statements she would have found that her June 
and July 2021 statements referred to the purchase she had made on 4 August 2020 and 
clearly state the SOD end date as 4 August 2021. The statements then include a section 
explaining the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period and providing warning when this is close to 
expiry. The statements include the payments due to be made should the full payment not be 
made before the end of the BNPL period.
Ms J said that the limited information she did receive from Creation misled her into believing 
she had until 4 September to make the payment. She has said that a letter received in 
February 2021 had in the right had corner the information ‘End of BNPL 04/08/21 First 
payment date 4 Sept 2021’. Ms J said that she didn’t know what BNPL referred to, but I think 
it reasonable that had this been the case she would have contacted Creation to understand 
the date or looked online for the account terms and conditions. Ms J has also referred to the 
email she received dated 21 July 2021. This states that the payment due date is when the 
first direct debit will be due. It then says that the details of the BNPL end date were provided 
at purchase and are available in the online account. Based on this I find that Creation was 
clear about what the September payment date was for and where to find details of the BNPL 
end date had Ms J not been aware of when this was.
In conclusion, I find that Ms J was provided with the information she needed to know that the 
full payment needed to be made by 4 August 2021 to prevent interest being added to her 
account. 
Ms J also complained about the payment taken on 4 September 2021. I appreciate she 
believed this was for unlawfully applied interest but as I do not find that Creation did anything 
wrong, or treated Ms J unfairly by applying the interest, I do not find I can say it was wrong to 
take the payment due under the direct debit given the balance outstanding on the account. 
Ms J then cancelled her direct debit which resulted in her account going into arrears. I note 
she says she didn’t receive any letters about this until 2023. Creation has explained that 
because Ms J made a payment of £1,580.27 on 27 August 2021 and a further payment of 
£102.84 on 6 September 2021, a total of £1,683.11 was received which put her account into 
credit and satisfied the contractual monthly amounts due until March 2023. As no payment 
was received in April 2023, the account went into arrears and so at that point letters were 
issued to Ms J and information was recorded on her credit file. Given there was a period 
when the account wasn’t in arrears, I do not find it unreasonable that notifications weren’t 
provided at that time. Once the account went into arrears Ms J was notified of this and I do 
not find I can say Creation did anything wrong by doing this or informing the credit reference 
agencies of the status of the account at that time. Ms J settled the account in full on 12 
September 2023.
So, while I understand that Ms J is upset by the experience she has had, I do not find that 
Creation did anything wrong in this case or that it treated Ms J unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4383573
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr C complains about Creation Consumer Finance Ltd’s decision to decline his claim for 
compensation, under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, about a pair of fitted 
bookcases.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr C ordered two bespoke fitted bookcases from a third party (“the supplier”). 
The cash price was £10,110. He paid a deposit of 20% of that with a debit card, and paid for 
the balance with a fixed sum loan financed by Creation. The bookcases were subsequently 
supplied and installed.
Mr C reported a number of faults to the supplier. The supplier agreed to carry out some 
further work on the bookcases, but Mr C was not satisfied with the results, and so he asked 
Creation for compensation under section 75. He initially asked for a partial refund. Creation 
contacted the supplier, who denied that there had ever been any faults and claimed that the 
further work had only been done as a gesture of good will. Based on that information, 
Creation declined Mr C’s claim on the ground that the bookcases had nothing wrong with 
them.
Mr C then paid £500 for an independent expert to inspect the bookcases and prepare a 
report about his findings. The expert described a number of flaws in the way the bookcases 
had been made and installed, and said that the additional work carried out by the supplier 
had not resolved the issues, and in one respect had been sub-standard. He said that further 
remedial work was needed. Mr C then referred this complaint to our service; we have shared 
the report with Creation, which has in turn asked the supplier for its comments about it. It is 
still waiting for them.
One of our investigators considered this complaint. He found the report to be credible and 
convincing. Based on the findings in that report, he decided that the bookcases had not been 
of satisfactory quality and had not been installed with reasonable skill and care. Since the 
remedial work already carried out had failed, the investigator concluded that Mr C was now 
entitled to reject the bookcases and end his loan agreement. So the investigator 
recommended that Creation arrange for the bookcases to be removed at no cost to Mr C, 
end the loan agreement with nothing further to pay, refund all his monthly payments, and 
refund the deposit and the cost of the expert report too, with interest on all of those refunds 
at 8% a year from the respective dates of payment to the date of settlement. Finally, he said 
Creation should also pay Mr C £250 for his inconvenience, and remove from his credit file 
any adverse data about the loan.
Creation said it was still waiting for the supplier to comment on the report. After a while, this 
case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also thought about whether I should give Creation more time to obtain the supplier’s 
comments about the expert report. But I think that plenty of time has been allowed for that 
already, and it would be unfair to keep Mr C waiting any longer. The investigator emailed the 
report to Creation on 25 May 2023, and on 14 July Creation acknowledged receipt and said 
it would review the report. The investigator issued his view on 8 August, being of the opinion 
(with which I agree) that Creation had had a reasonable time to consider the report. He said 
he had relied heavily on the report, as it was very detailed.
On 5 September Creation told the investigator that it had asked the supplier for some 
additional information and was waiting for its reply. On 9 September it asked for a copy of 
the report (which had already been provided); this was provided again. To date 
(1 November), Creation has apparently still not received from the supplier the response it 
has been waiting for. After this much time, I suspect that nothing will be gained by waiting 
any longer, but even if the supplier does intend to reply to Creation, I think it has already had 
long enough. And Creation has had the opportunity to evaluate the report for itself. I take into 
account that the statute which created the Financial Ombudsman Service requires us to 
resolve complaints quickly.
The report goes into detail about the shortcomings of the bookcases, and includes 
photographs. The author has set out his 25 years of experience, and I’m satisfied that he is a 
reliable expert witness. His report is unchallenged evidence in this case, but I have still 
considered whether it is reliable. Having done so, I think that his report is clear, credible, and 
helpful, and I accept his findings and most of his conclusions. I disagree with his opinion 
about one topic: while the finish of the back edges of the shelves does not meet with his 
approval, they are invisible when the shelves are fitted in place within the bookcases, and so 
I don’t think that this supposed fault means that the bookcases are not of satisfactory quality. 
That aside, I think that the report sets out convincingly that the bookcases are otherwise not 
of satisfactory quality and were not installed correctly, and that the additional work carried 
out by the supplier has not resolved these issues.
In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account that the bookcases were brand new 
and bespoke goods, and that they were expensive. I might have taken a more relaxed view 
about their shortcomings if this had been cheap, mass-produced furniture that the consumer 
had had to assemble himself. But in this instance, I think it is fair and reasonable to hold 
these goods to a higher standard. And it is clear from the report that the bookcases fall short 
of what I think Mr C was entitled to expect. So I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
The supplier having had its chance to repair the bookcases, and not having succeeded at 
that, I agree that Mr C now has the right to reject them. I think the redress proposed by my 
colleague is fair (and Creation has not argued otherwise), and so I will endorse and adopt 
that.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

Arrange for the bookcases to be removed at no cost to Mr C;

End the loan agreement with nothing further to pay, and remove any adverse 
information about it from Mr C’s credit file;

Refund all of his monthly payments;

Refund the deposit of £2,022;

Refund the cost of the independent report (£500);

Pay interest on all of the above refunds at the rate of eight percent a year simple, 
from the dates each payment was made to the date of settlement;

Pay Mr C £250 for his inconvenience.
If Creation considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it must tell Mr C how much it’s taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Mr C should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both 
parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4385769
--------------------------

Complaint
Mrs M has complained about a loan Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) 
provided to her. 
She says she had significant credit card debt and Creation had carried out enough checks it 
would have seen the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Creation provided Mrs M with a loan for £6,400.00 in March 2022. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £141.54. One of our investigators reviewed what        
Mrs M and Creation had told us. And she didn’t recommend that Mrs M’s complaint be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mrs M’s complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I’ve not been persuaded to uphold Mrs M’s 
complaint. I’ll explain why in a little more detail.
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs M 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Creation says it agreed to Mrs M’s application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mrs M could 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs M has said 
she was in financial difficulty and shouldn’t have been lent to.
I’ve carefully thought about what Mrs M and Creation have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Creation has suggested it carried out credit searches 
which showed that Mrs M didn’t have that much in the way of existing credit commitments 
and what she did have was relatively well maintained. 
I accept that Mrs M appears to be suggesting that her actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the information Creation 
obtained. I know that Mrs M says that she had defaulted on previous credit commitments. 
But I don’t think that Creation was aware of this as I think it’s unlikely that Mrs M would have 
been given an APR of 12.4% had Creation been aware of her previous difficulties with credit.
I’ve also seen that Mrs M believes that Creation had no actual evidence of her situation at 
the time. She’s also said that a lender should ask for bank statements before providing a 
loan of this amount and that she was using her overdraft most months. 
However, I don’t think that the amount being advanced in itself meant that bank statements 
should have been requested from Mrs M in this instance – particularly given the low monthly 
payments required and Mrs M didn’t, from Creation’s credit searches at least, appear to be 
significantly indebted or have any recent significant adverse information recorded against 
her. 
Furthermore, there’s a suggestion from Mrs M’s initial complaint that this loan was taken out 
for consolidation purposes. And Creation could only make a reasonable decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. Mrs M could have used the funds from this loan 
to have cleared what she owed on more expensive forms of credit - such as her overdraft. 
Creation couldn’t have been expected to know that Mrs M would go on to, as she says, re-
establish balances on her credit cards and overdraft – all it could do was take reasonable 
steps and rely on assurances from Mrs M that she would consolidate debts with the funds 
from this loan. So I’m satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been 
used to reduce Mrs M’s balances on more expensive credit and Creation simply wasn’t in a 
position to close Mrs M’s accounts either. 
Equally, this was a first loan Creation was providing and there wasn’t a history of Mrs M 
obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she committed to 
either. So Creation was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs M would be left in a better 
position after being provided with this loan. In these circumstances, I don’t think that 
Creation’s decision to lend was unreasonable. 
As this is the case, I don’t think that Creation did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mrs M - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable, although I do accept that Mrs M doesn’t agree. 
So overall I don’t think that Creation treated Mrs M unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with his loan. And I’m not upholding Mrs M’s complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs M. But I hope she’ll understand the reasons for my decision and that 
she’ll at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mrs M’s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4408353
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs J complains about the outcome of her section 75 claim with Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd (“Creation”) regarding a laptop purchased under a running account credit agreement.
What happened
Mrs J purchased a laptop using her running account credit agreement with Creation on 27 
July 2022. 
On 16 May 2023 she raised issue with Creation regarding the quality of the laptop. She said 
that it was faulty and she’d been trying to resolve the issue with the supplier, directly, since 
February 2023. She asked to return the goods.
Creation responded to the issue on 13 July 2023. Creation said the supplier had told it that it 
asked to inspect the laptop for faults but Mrs J had refused. It rejected Mrs J’s claim and 
gave referral rights to this service. 
Mrs J subsequently referred her complaint to this service. In doing so she said that the 
laptop had developed a fault whereby it would become unresponsive and switch itself off 
around 17 February 2023. She mentioned that she’d tried to address the issue with both the 
supplier as well as the manufacturer, without success. 
Our investigator accepted that Creation was answerable for Mrs J’s complaint about the 
laptop’s quality under section 75. However, they said that under relevant legislation the onus 
to demonstrate the laptop supplied to Mrs J wasn’t of satisfactory quality was on her as the 
fault manifested more than six months from supply. They weren’t persuaded that Mrs J had 
done that based on the evidence she’d been provided. They didn’t uphold the complaint. 
Mrs J disputed that the onus to demonstrate the laptop’s quality ought to be on her and said 
that she considered the evidence she’d provided, particularly from the manufacturer, 
should’ve been sufficient. Mrs J subsequently said the problems with the laptop had actually 
started in January 2023 – within six months of the laptop being supplied – and she’d 
reported the issue to the supplier then. 
Our investigator made enquiries with the supplier via Creation to see if that could be 
established, but ultimately wasn’t able to find evidence to corroborate what Mrs J had said. 
Mrs J has asked for an ombudsman’s decision on the case, so it’s been passed to me. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs J might find that I’ve presented events in less detail than in her submissions. That’s 
simply because I don’t find it necessary to mirror that level of detail in explaining what I think 
a fair and reasonable outcome is. So, if I don’t mention something that Mrs J said, it’s not 
because I’ve not considered it – I can assure Mrs J that I’ve carefully considered all of her 
submissions in detail.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I’m required 
to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I’ve made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities – that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is relevant here. It protects consumers who buy 
goods and services on credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the finance provider is legally 
answerable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. In practice that 
means that if Mrs J has a claim against the supplier for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, then she also has a ‘like claim’ against the finance provider. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant here. It says, in summary, that any 
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality – defined as whether they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of 
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers 
to the durability of the goods.
So, in the context of Mrs J’s complaint – and based on her claim – I need to decide whether 
there’s been a breach of contract on the grounds that she was supplied goods which weren’t 
of satisfactory quality. 
Mrs J was supplied with a brand-new laptop, so I’d expect it to be free from faults for a 
considerable time and also to be sufficiently durable.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, it’s assumed that the fault was 
present when the goods were supplied, unless there’s compelling evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Outside of those six months, it’s for Mrs J to show that the goods were not of 
satisfactory quality.
There’s some dispute about exactly when Mrs J first reported faults with the laptop – she 
initially said it was 17 February 2023, then later said it was earlier in January 2023. 
However, Creation has provided comments and evidence from the supplier which seems to 
show that Mrs J raised her dissatisfaction with the supplier in a letter dated 15 May 2023. 
I’ve seen that letter and it seems to me that Mrs J’s dissatisfaction related to events recent to 
that date. There’s no mention of having raised the issue in January or February 2023. 
Additionally, our investigator made enquiries about the possibility of this having happened 
and ultimately wasn’t able to establish it did. 
Overall, based on the evidence I’ve been provided, it seems likely to me that Mrs J first 
raised the issue regarding her laptop in May 2023, some ten months after it was supplied.
Whilst that’s more than six months from the supply of the goods, I don’t think that necessarily 
means that the onus to demonstrate issues with the laptop’s quality lies solely with Mrs J. I 
say this because I don’t think a reasonable person would expect a laptop to develop a 
serious fault within ten months of supply. 
That being said, I don’t think we’ve been given persuasive evidence as to whether there’s a 
fault with Mrs J’s laptop, nor what that fault is. That’s problematic, because there’s a number 
of things that can go wrong with technology which isn’t limited there being an inherent fault 
with the goods – software and hardware issues could arise as a result of a number of 
different causes. 
I accept that Mrs J has provided some evidence of screenshots of texts she says she 
received from the manufacturer. It appears that it did some remote testing/ diagnoses and 
referred Mrs J back to the supplier, going as far as to suggest she presented those texts as 
evidence of a fault. But I don’t think that’s sufficient to say there’s a fault with the laptop, nor 
what that fault is. Additionally, and significantly, even if you were to argue that’s evidence of 
a fault, it’s not enough to say that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply, 
nor that it happened as a result of a manufacturing defect, for example, to conclude that the 
laptop hasn’t been sufficiently durable. 
Creation has also provided comments from the supplier which suggest that it had offered to 
inspect the laptop for faults. I know that Mrs J disputes that’s true, but I’ve seen evidence 
which suggest it happened, and I’ve no reason to believe that those records are inaccurate.
Mrs J has otherwise not presented any evidence – an independent inspection of the goods, 
for example – which persuades me that there’s a fault with them, that was either present or 
developing when they were supplied, or that the goods haven’t been sufficiently durable. In 
otherwise, I haven’t been persuaded that Mrs J was supplied with goods which weren’t of 
satisfactory quality. I also think that Mrs J has been given ample opportunity to provide 
evidence which might demonstrate whether there’s a fault and what’s caused it.
Overall, given the time which seems to have passed from supply to the fault developing, as 
well as what I consider to be a lack of evidence regarding the presence and/ or cause of a 
fault, I don’t think I’ve been presented with sufficient evidence to conclude there’s been a 
breach of contract. I therefore don’t find that Creation ought to do anymore in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4409200
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd, who I’ll call Creation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won’t repeat them again 
here. Instead, I’ll focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
  
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I agree with the investigator’s opinion. I’ll explain why.
Where the information I’ve got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I’ve read and considered the whole file, but I’ll concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I don’t comment on any specific point it’s not because I’ve failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I don’t think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasn’t then Creation, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here had already 
completed about 28,000 miles and was about four years old.
An old car with a high mileage will not be expected to be as good as a newer car with a low 
mileage, but it should still be fit for use on the road, in a condition that reflects its age and 
price.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Creation were responsible for the car’s 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Mr M reported a fault with the clutch after 
he’d been in receipt of the car for only a few days. I’m persuaded that fault was likely to have 
been present when he collected the car, and I can’t see that the business disputed that as 
they completed the necessary repairs.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair faults that are present 
when goods are supplied. In April 2023, only about two months after Mr M had taken charge 
of the car, a further fault was reported by him. This was eventually diagnosed as a drive 
belt/pulley issue. The fault has been corroborated by another garage and an independent 
inspection. While the independent inspector suggested it was unlikely that the fault was 
present when the car was supplied I don’t think that’s the most likely scenario. I say that 
because Mr M had reported the issue in April 2023 and the inspection didn’t take place until 
August 2023. Mr M had also been without the car for about three weeks prior to reporting the 
fault, as the car had been in the garage being repaired. I think there was, therefore, limited 
time in which this subsequent fault could have developed, and it was more likely than not 
that the subsequent fault was also developing at the point of supply.
In those circumstances I would agree with our investigator’s opinion, that this car should now 
be rejected.
Putting things right
Creation should collect the car at no cost to Mr M and they should end the finance 
agreement.
They’ll need to refund any deposit Mr M has paid and, as he’s been deprived of that money, 
they will need to add interest to that refund.
Mr M has had to commission a reports on the car’s condition in order to support his claim. I 
think those costs have been incurred as a consequence of the car being of unsatisfactory 
quality. So, Creation should refund the cost of those reports on provision of receipts from   
Mr M. They should add interest to that refund too.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. He’s had to take the car back to the 
dealership and has had to arrange a diagnostic. He’s also had to escalate his complaint to 
this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances Creation 
should pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he’s experienced.
Mr M hasn’t been able to use the car since May 2023 so Creation should refund any monthly 
payments made since then in respect of his lack of use of the car. They should add interest 
to the refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Consumer Finance 
Ltd to:

Allow Mr M to reject the car and end the finance agreement.

Collect the car at no cost to Mr M.

Refund any deposit that has been paid and add 8% simple interest* per year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.

Refund the cost of Mr M’s diagnostic reports on provision of receipts and add 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.

Pay Mr M £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience he’s 
experienced.

Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr M’s credit file in relation to 
this issue.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4414104
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr W complains that a used car he got with finance provided by Creation Consumer Finance 
Limited (CCF) is of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr W acquired this car near the start of April 2022. He noticed some issues straight away
and contacted the supplying dealer. He sent an email on 6 April 2022 to say he’d only 
received one key, the passenger rear window wouldn’t open, the passenger mirror didn’t 
work from the driver’s control pad and there was a loud knocking noise from the front left 
wheel. Mr W says the dealer asked him to have the car checked at a local garage and it 
would reimburse the cost of repairs. He took the vehicle to a local third party garage (which 
I’ll refer to as MC) that checked it in mid-May and found a loose strut brace, a suspected 
fault to both front reaction arms, front brake discs were warped and new discs and pads 
were required. MC undertook relevant repairs in July 2022 but the problems returned and Mr 
W took the car to a main dealer for the brand (that I’ll call MB) for more checks. 
In September 2022, Mr W paid MB £294.86 to supply and fit brake discs and pads, the brake 
wear sensor and a key ring. Two months later, in November 2022, Mr W reported the 
problems had returned – the steering wheel shook on braking and the power window switch 
on the driver’s door was faulty – and the roof was now leaking. MB inspected the car again 
and confirmed the power window switch needed replacing and there was a roof leak. Mr W 
paid for another inspection in December 2022 when MB removed the front wheels and  
inspected the brake discs. The relevant paperwork says MB found “wheels refurbed on 
contact area…VHC Suspension – to brake discs caused brake discs to warp…VHC Drive 
Shafts – advise new front brake pads + discs + x 4 new alloy wheels”. At a visual health 
check (VHC) on 28 December 2022, MB found the left headlamp was broken, brake discs, 
pads and alloy wheels needed replacing and there were issues with the power switch, brake 
judder and the roof leak, which would all cost around £8,000 to repair.
The supplying dealer is no longer trading and Mr W complained to CCF - as it provided the 
car and the credit, in the form of a hire purchase agreement (HPA). CCF didn’t think there 
was enough evidence to show that the issues reported were present or developing at the 
point of supply and didn’t uphold the complaint so Mr W referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators reviewed the evidence. He recommended the complaint should be 
upheld. He noted the HPA is dated about a month after Mr W received the car but he 
thought that probably reflected when the finance payments started to be taken from Mr W’s 
bank account - in May 2022. He was satisfied that CCF provided the finance and the car to 
Mr W and he went on to consider whether the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point 
of supply. The investigator thought it was likely the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the 
outset as Mr W reported problems the day after he got it and MC identified faults with the 
brakes and suspension arms not long after. He was satisfied that repairs were attempted 
several times and these were unsuccessful - MB found the same issues were still present at 
the end of 2022. He considered it was fair for Mr W to be allowed to reject the car and have 
his £7,000 deposit refunded plus 20% of two monthly finance payments - to reflect his 
impaired use in July and September 2022.  
Mr W told us he stopped using the car in November 2022 because of faults present since the
outset. The investigator didn’t think that was unreasonable in the circumstances and he
recommended any monthly payments made from November 2022 should be refunded in full
for this loss of use. He thought CCF should also refund the cost of repairs/inspections Mr W 
paid for totalling £1,382.29 – which didn’t include the roof leak, as this wasn’t reported until
about seven months after supply and the investigator didn’t think there was enough evidence 
to show it’s likely to have been present when Mr W got the car. The investigator said CCF 
should also pay interest on any refunds plus £250 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and remove any adverse information from Mr W’s credit file. 
CCF asked for evidence of Mr W’s out of pocket expenses, the location of the car and more
time to consider the investigator’s conclusions. The investigator provided this information
and agreed CCF could have some more time. The time set for CCF’s response passed and 
it didn’t supply anything further so the matter was referred to me for a decision. Having 
considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint but I was inclined 
to reach a different outcome overall. I thought it was fair to give the parties the chance to see 
my provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my 
final decision. I issued a provisional decision on  6 October 2023 and I’ve set out below (in 
italics) what I decided provisionally (and why) – this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities – in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
CCF supplied this car to Mr W under a under a HPA and it was obliged to ensure that the car
was of satisfactory quality at the outset, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The
quality of goods includes appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, fitness for
purpose and durability and the standard that is to be considered “satisfactory” will vary
depending on individual circumstances. In the case of a used car it’s generally reasonable to
take into account the age and mileage at the point of supply. This car was nearly four years 
old with over 42,000 miles on the clock when it was supplied and cost £24,800. I think a 
reasonable person wouldn’t expect a used vehicle to meet the same standard as a brand 
new one – and that’s reflected in the price paid - but there is a reasonable expectation it will 
fairly durable when it’s supplied.
I’m satisfied that Mr W experienced some fairly significant problems the day after he got this
car. I’ve seen an email where he contacted the credit broker reporting that the passenger 
rear window and passenger mirror couldn’t be operated from the control pad on the driver’s 
side, there was a loud knocking noise coming from the front left hand wheel on full lock or 
going around a corner and the car was supplied with only one key. It looks as if the 
supplying dealer, which was located some distance from Mr W, suggested he get the car 
checked at a garage near to him and Mr W took the car to MC who charged £84 (incl VAT) 
to do so.
I’m satisfied that Mr W emailed the dealer with estimated repair costs in June 2022. I think
the dealer seems to have accepted responsibility and agreed to supply relevant parts. And,
when the parts hadn’t arrived after a month or so, Mr W wrote again to say he’d pay for the
repairs himself and the dealer could reimburse the cost. I’ve seen an invoice that shows MC
carried out repairs in July 2022 at a cost of £708. This was a bit cheaper than the original
estimate and I think that’s probably because the parts had arrived from the supplying dealer
– the relevant invoice confirms that Mr W supplied some parts. If I’m wrong about that, and
Mr W paid for these parts himself, he should let me know in response to this provisional
decision (and provide evidence of any related cost).
It looks as if these repairs didn’t fix things. Mr W says faults re-appeared and MB seems to
have carried out further repairs in September 2022 that cost £294.86. Unfortunately this
doesn’t seem to have resolved things either. I can see Mr W took the car back to MB in
November and December 2022 and further investigations revealed that the door switch 
needed to be replaced, the roof was leaking, there were issues with the suspension that 
caused brake discs to warp meaning new parts were required and repairs needed would 
cost in the region of £8,000. 
Taking everything I’ve seen so far into account, I’m satisfied it’s likely this car had relatively 
significant faults present at the point of supply – in that there was a knocking noise probably 
caused by a suspension fault that adversely impacted on other parts including the brakes 
and a power switch in the driver’s door didn’t work. I’m minded to agree the car was probably 
of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I’ve seen nothing to suggest that Mr W sought to reject the car within the first 30 days - he 
seems to have been content for the dealer to pay for relevant repairs. But it looks as if the 
various efforts to resolve the issues (by both MC and MB) didn’t work - MB found the same 
problems were still there at the end of 2022. The investigator didn’t think it was fair to expect 
Mr W to wait any longer for this car to be fixed. He recommended CCF should take the car 
back, end the HPA and refund the £7,000 deposit. I note that Mr W has indicated that he 
would still like to keep the car if CCF pays for the repairs needed. It’s not clear to me which 
of the repairs set out on the VHC he means - or whether he considers all of these are CCF’s 
responsibility. It’s open to the parties to agree to repair the car (or any other resolution 
option) if they want to. However, on the current evidence and for the reasons set out above, 
I’m minded to find it’s fair that Mr W should be entitled to exercise his final right to reject the 
car under the CRA and have his deposit back.
I also consider it is reasonable for CCF to refund the cost of any relevant investigations and
repairs that Mr W paid for - as he incurred those expenses due to faults present when the
car was supplied. As far as I can see this adds up to £1,380.09 as follows:-
- MC invoice (investigations) 19/5/22 £84
- MC invoice (repairs) 1/7/22 £708
- MB invoice (repairs) 12/9/22 £294.86
- MB invoice (investigations) 30/11/22 £207.03 (reduced for the reasons below)
- MB invoice (investigations) 7/12/22 £86.20
The invoice from MB dated 30 November 2022 totals £293.33 but this includes investigation
work relating to a roof leak. I can’t see that issue was mentioned previously - there’s no
reference to this in any of the earlier invoices or in the correspondence I’ve seen from Mr W
to the dealer/broker in the first six months after supply. Like the investigator, I don’t think
there’s enough evidence to safely conclude that the roof leak is likely to have been present
when Mr W got this car so I can’t reasonably hold CCF responsible for any related
investigations or repair costs. I’m minded therefore to deduct £71.83 (plus VAT) from the 
total – for work done in regard to the roof leak – and find it is fair for CCF to refund £207.03 
only in relation to the November invoice.
The investigator recommended that CCF should also refund 20% of two monthly payments -
to reflect Mr W’s impaired use of the car early on - and refund any payments made after
November 2022 in full because he stopped using the car then due to safety concerns. After
the matter was referred to me, Mr W told us he’d started using the vehicle again - as it’s the
family’s only car. He supplied a photo of the odometer showing the car had accrued around
62,450 miles – that’s about 10,000 more than the mileage recorded in the last December
2022 invoice. I think it’s fair that Mr W should pay for the use he had of the car so I’m not 
persuaded that CCF should provide a full refund of monthly payments from November 2022. 
Looking at all the available evidence however, I am minded to find it’s more likely than not 
Mr W’s use of the car was impaired from the outset. I’m satisfied he reported fairly significant 
issues the day after he got the car, which the dealer seems to have accepted warranted 
repairs. Then the car was off the road several times over the next six months for various 
checks and repairs which didn’t resolve matters - the same issues appeared after a few 
weeks. Mr W told us he’s now resorted to having a friend replace discs and pads, just to 
keep mobile, but he’s not driving the car the way he otherwise would have - due to ongoing 
problems. He also said his wife won’t drive the car at all due to concerns about safety as it 
continues to judder. Taking everything I’ve seen into account, I’m minded to find it is 
reasonable for CCF to refund 10% of any monthly payments made since the start of the HPA 
to reflect Mr W’s impaired/lost usage.
I agree it’s fair that CCF should pay interest on any refunds. I’m also satisfied Mr W has
likely experienced a good deal of distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied
with this faulty car – he had to chase the broker/dealer numerous times and take the car for
various repairs and inspections. I consider the £250 compensation the investigator
recommended sounds fair. And I also agree that any adverse information recorded about the
HPA should be removed from Mr W’s credit file.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider what I’ve said and let me have any further comments or 
evidence that I hadn’t seen before by 20 October 2023 and I’d review all the evidence 
available after that and make my final decision.
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision and CCF hasn’t provided any new evidence or 
raised any objections to my provisional findings. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from 
my provisional conclusions in the circumstances. I remain of the view this car was 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr W and it is fair and reasonable for CCF to 
take the steps I’ve set out to put things right.   
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve given above, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require 
Creation Consumer Finance Limited to:-
1. end the HPA with nothing further to pay, record the finance as settled and collect 
the car at no additional cost to Mr W;
2. refund the advance payment of £7,000;
3. refund 10% of any monthly payments made to reflect Mr W’s lost/impaired use;
4. reimburse Mr W’s out of pocket expenses incurred as a result of being supplied 
with this faulty car, in the sum of £1,380.09 (as detailed above);
5. pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunds from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement;
6. pay Mr W £250 for associated distress or inconvenience; and
7. remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from Mr W’s credit file. 
If CCF does not pay the compensation for inconvenience and distress within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it that Mr W accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple 
yearly interest on this from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
If CCF considers that it’s required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr W how much it’s taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs, if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4418991
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd lent irresponsibly when it approved a 
loan in her name. 
What happened
Mrs C applied for a loan of £7,500 with Creation in September 2019. Creation says that in 
the application Mrs C advised she was employed with an income of £30,000 a year. Creation 
says it calculated Mrs C would receive around £2,500 net each month. Creation carried out a 
credit search and says it found monthly unsecured credit commitments totalling around 
£780. Creation says it didn’t find any secured lending, like mortgages, in Mrs C’s name and 
used a rent/mortgage figure of £600 for assessment purposes. Creation says it used the net 
monthly income of £2500 and commitments totalling £1,655.09 (including the new loan 
payment) leaving Mrs C with £844.91 each month as disposable income. The loan was 
approved. 
Mrs C has explained the loan formed part of a pattern of borrowing that caused financial 
difficulties. Mrs C’s told us she’s since received debt advice from a third party organisation.
Earlier this year, Mrs C complained that Creation had lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
loan in 2019. Creation didn’t agree and said it had applied its normal lending checks before 
deciding whether to proceed. Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and it was passed 
to an investigator. Mrs C supplied copies of bank statements for the months preceding her 
loan application in 2019 and a full copy of her credit file. 
The investigator upheld Mrs C’s complaint as they felt Creation had failed to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks. The investigator thought that if Creation had looked 
more closely at Mrs C’s circumstances it would’ve most likely declined her loan application. 
Creation responded and asked for supporting information by way of the bank statements Mrs 
C had sent us. Creation’s case handler explained they wanted to refer the information to its 
Risk team to review. The information was forwarded to Creation on 7 September 2023. On 
27 September 2023 Creation asked for more time. That was the last time the investigator 
heard from Creation and it didn’t respond further to their emails. On 25 October 2023 the 
investigator contacted both parties to say Mrs C’s complaint was being referred to an 
ombudsman as no response had been received. As a result, Mrs C’s complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. I’ve had this approach in mind when considering Mrs C’s complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Creation needed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
to ensure that Mrs C could afford to repay what was being lent. These checks needed to be 
borrower focussed and could take into account things such as the amount of credit, the total 
sum repayable and the consumers financial circumstances. There’s no set list of checks a 
lender has to do. But lenders are required to have regard to the factors I’ve mentioned above 
when deciding what’s reasonable and proportionate.
I’ve reviewed the information Creation provided in its file submission concerning Mrs C’s 
application, including the figures it used to check whether her loan was affordable. I think it’s 
fair to note that Creation’s told us Mrs C gave an income figure of £30,000 a year and that it 
used a net monthly income of £2,500. But that would be the gross income Mrs C received 
before tax and deductions, not the net figure. So as a starting point, it appears Creation used 
a higher “take home” income figure than Mrs C would’ve received if her income had been 
£30,000 which brings its affordability assessment into question. 
I also think it’s fair to note Mrs C had a substantial amount of unsecured debt when she 
applied. Mrs C’s credit file shows she had around £32,350 in unsecured debt at the point of 
her application costing around £915 a month to service. The total borrowing figure is more 
than Mrs C’s declared income which I think should’ve put Creation on notice she may’ve 
been borrowing to support other credit and make ends meet. In addition, Mrs C’s credit file 
shows her mortgage was around £220,000 with repayments of £1,446 a month. Taken 
together, Mrs C would’ve needed to be able to support monthly commitments of £2,361 plus 
the new Creation payment of £160.79. Given the level of outgoings Mrs C had to service 
credit, I think Creation should’ve done more to check she could afford to make repayments 
sustainably for the full term of its loan. There was a range of options available to Creation, 
like obtaining evidence of Mrs C’s income or asking for bank statements.
Mrs C has given us bank statements from the period before her loan was approved. Whilst I 
can’t see evidence of all Mrs C’s outgoings, her earning income was paid into the account 
we have statements for. They show Mrs C’s income varied considerably. In May 2019 Mrs C 
received £190.59 from her employer and in June 2019 she received £621.88. It was only in 
July 2019 that Mrs C received income broadly in line with the figure given in the application 
form when she received £2,349.38. In my view, if Creation had carried out more 
comprehensive checks it would’ve found Mrs C’s income was variable each month and not 
sufficient to support further borrowing. As a result, I think Creation would most likely have 
declined Mrs C’s loan if it had carried out more comprehensive checks during the 
application. I’m satisfied Creation lent irresponsibly when it approved Mrs C’s loan 
application. 
Creation hasn’t provided a specific response to the investigator’s findings. But I’m satisfied 
the investigator provided a reasonable amount of time and sent a number of requests for 
comment before referring the complaint for a decision. Our remit requires us to move cases 
forward without undue delay. I’m satisfied Creation has been given fair opportunity to 
respond and that I have sufficient information already on file to reach a fair decision. So, for 
the reasons I’ve given above, I’m going to proceed and uphold Mrs C’s complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs C’s complaint and direct Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to 
settle as follows: 
Add up the total amount of money Mrs C received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mrs C made should be deducted from this amount.
-
a) If this results in Mrs C having paid more than she received, any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). † Creation should also 
remove all adverse information regarding the loan from Mrs C’s credit file
-
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Creation should attempt to 
arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mrs C. Once she has cleared 
the balance, any adverse information in relation to the loan should be removed from 
her credit file
† HM Revenue & Customs requires Creation to take off tax from this interest. Creation must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it’s taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4419214
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs F complains about the quality of a sofa she purchased under a fixed sum loan 
agreement (“agreement”) with Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
On, or around, 9 October 2022 Mrs F entered into an agreement with Creation for a sofa 
purchased from a retailer that I will call “D”. The cost of the sofa was £3,725 and everything 
else being equal Mrs F undertook to pay D a deposit of £400 and Creation 48 monthly 
payments of £69.27, making a total repayable of £3,724.96 (£400 to D and £3,324.96 to 
Creation) at an APR of 0%.  
On or around 17 December 2022 Mrs F took delivery of her sofa from D.
On 19 December 2022 Mrs F complained to Creation about the quality of the sofa D had 
delivered to her. Creation advised Mrs F to contact D
On 20 December 2022 Mrs F complained to D about the quality of the sofa it had delivered 
to her.
On 6 January 2023 the sofa was inspected by an agent of D who concluded it could be 
repaired.
Following receipt of the above advice Mrs F wrote to D to say she wasn’t prepared to accept 
a repair.
On 20 February 2023 Mrs F complained to Creation about the quality of the sofa D had 
delivered to her.
On 20 March 2023 the sofa was inspected again by an agent of D who concluded again it 
could be repaired.
On 13 April 2023 Mrs F complained to Creation about the quality of the sofa D had delivered 
to her.
On 3 May 2023 Creation issued Mrs F with a final response letter (“FRL”). Under cover of 
this FRL Creation said it wasn’t upholding Mrs F’s complaint and her agreement was £69.27 
in arrears. 
On 4 May 2023, and unhappy with Creations FRL, Mrs F complained to our service.
Mrs F’s complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld.
Mrs F accepted the investigator’s view but Creation didn’t respond to it. And because of the 
latter Mrs F’s complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that I’ve come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (“section 75”) sets out that in certain 
circumstances, the finance provider (Creation) can be held jointly liable if there has been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation of the goods by the supplier (D).
 
Mrs F contacted Creation and D about the quality of the sofa within a matter of days of 
taking delivery of it. Therefore I’ve considered whether there was a breach of contract. In 
doing so, I’ve taken into account the relevant legislation which is the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (“CRA”). It says that under a contract to supply goods, there’s an implied term that the 
goods are of satisfactory quality and are of a standard that a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account things like the description of the goods, the price 
and other relevant circumstances. Other considerations include its fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability.
Based on photographs provided by Mrs F and the two inspections undertaken on behalf of D 
I’m satisfied that the sofa was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied meaning there 
was a breach of contract for which Creation, under section 75, is liable for.
It appears D has offered Mrs F a repair, but she doesn’t want a repair. So I must decide what 
is fair to put things right.
The CRA provides consumers the short term right to reject the goods (30 days) if they aren’t 
of satisfactory quality. Based on everything that has been said and submitted I’m satisfied 
that Mrs F complained about the quality of the sofa and her desire to reject it within a matter 
of a few days, and certainly within 30. 
But even if I’m wrong about Mrs F exercising her short term right to reject, given how her 
claim and compliant have been handled by D and Creation, and how long this matter has 
been going on for, I consider it fair and reasonable for Creation to allow her to reject the 
goods now rather than have them repaired.
Given how quickly Mrs F complained about the quality of the sofa I also think it’s only fair 
that Creation refund to Mrs F all the payments she has made under the agreement (including 
her deposit) together with interest and with no deduction for use.
I see that the investigator felt that Creation should compensate Mrs F £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience this whole matter has caused her. And taking everything into account 
including, but not restricted to, Creation’s handling of matters and its decision in May 2023 to 
not uphold Mrs F’s compliant on the basis of a submission from D that is obviously in respect 
of a completely different consumer, I’m satisfied that this is indeed what Creation should 
have to do,
My final decision
My final decision is that Creation Consumer finance Ltd must:

arrange collection of the sofa from Mrs F at no cost to her

refund to Mrs F all the monthly payments she has made to it under the agreement

refund to Mrs F the £400 deposit she paid D

pay Mrs F 8% simple interest a year on the above refunds from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement*

remove any adverse information from Mrs F’s credit file in respect of the agreement

pay Mrs F £300 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused her
* HMRC requires Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs F 
asks for a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off this should be provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4421605
--------------------------

The complaint
Mrs A complains that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (Creation) asked her to repay a 
debt that she didn’t think she owed.
What happened
Mrs A entered into a loan agreement with Creation in March 2020. The loan had a term of 60 
months and the monthly loan repayments were £60.16. In July and August 2022, Mrs A 
missed two of these contractual repayments. Creation says Mrs A managed to pay one of 
the payments shortly afterwards, but a plan was set up to repay the other payment in 
instalments over a period of six months starting from September 2022.
Soon after this period, Mrs A began receiving correspondence saying the account was in 
arrears by £60.16. Mrs A initially wrote to Creation disputing this. There was then a phone 
call between Creation and Mrs A where an adviser explained that the arrears were from 
February 2023, however Mrs A disputed this again. Upon receipt of further collections 
letters, Mrs A brought her complaint to this service. Following this, a default notice was 
issued in August 2023. 
In October 2023, Creation issued a final response letter. In summary, it said it had attempted 
to take a payment for £60.16 in February 2023, however this was returned as unpaid two 
days later. It acknowledged that the adviser Mrs A spoke with could have made it clearer 
that what was owed on the account was a contractual repayment which had been missed, 
and therefore not linked to the separate arrangement to repay the previous arrears. 
However, it ultimately said the funds were still owed.
One of our investigators ultimately reviewed matters. In summary, he said the payment that 
was owed was the last contractual repayment of Mrs A’s agreement. And whilst her 
statements don’t show a returned direct debit, the contractual repayment from 
February 2023 hadn’t been paid. So, he didn’t think Creation acted unfairly by pursuing her 
for the outstanding amount.
Creation didn’t dispute our investigator’s findings, but Mrs A did and mostly repeated her 
earlier points. She also pointed out that her statement didn’t show a returned payment and 
that if Creation didn’t take the payment in February 2023, then that was its mistake. As an 
agreement couldn’t be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I’ve decided not to uphold Mrs A’s complaint. I’ll explain my reasons why.
As part of Mrs A’s agreement, she is required to make the monthly loan repayment on her 
account each month. Creation’s systems show that in February 2023, it attempted to take 
the payment from Mrs A’s account, but this was returned unpaid two days later. However, 
Mrs A points out that there was no record of a returned direct debit on her bank statements. 
Therefore, it’s unclear exactly what happened with the payment here.
I also note that Mrs A disputed the missed payment in June 2023 and outlined why she 
thought she had made all the necessary payments. But I can’t see that Mrs A received a 
response to this letter.
However, as I understand it, there was a subsequent phone call later that month between 
Mrs A and Creation. During the call, Mrs A said she had made all payments under the 
agreed arrangement to pay off previous arrears. It’s clear there was some confusion here, 
and I agree that it would’ve been more helpful if the adviser explained that the missing 
payment was February’s contractual payment, and therefore not linked to the arrangement 
to pay the previous arrears. That being said, I’m still satisfied that Mrs A was put on some 
notice about what payment was owed on the account during the phone call with the adviser.
Additionally, Mrs A received several letters explaining that her account was in arrears of 
£60.16 and that she needed to make a payment immediately. As there was no payment 
made, a default notice was sent to Mrs A in August 2023. The letter explained that the 
account would be terminated if the outstanding balance wasn’t paid. 
Having thought carefully about all this, I can understand there was some confusion about the 
missed payment in the first instance and it’s unclear exactly why the payment wasn’t taken. 
However, having reviewed all the available information, I’m satisfied that a payment was 
indeed owed on the account. 
I acknowledge that Mrs A says Creation should have taken the monthly repayment as 
agreed. That’s true, it should have, and it’s unclear exactly what happened here. However, I 
need to point out here that Mrs A also has an obligation; that being to ensure payments are 
made towards her outstanding balance and to mitigate any losses. 
Here, Creation made Mrs A aware that a payment was owing on the account, and it was 
clear about what may happen if the payment wasn’t made. The fact is, Mrs A didn’t make the 
required payment and so those consequences came to pass. On that basis, I can’t fairly 
determine that Creation treated Mrs A unfairly in how it pursued her for the outstanding 
balance. It follows that I don’t uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don’t uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4422216
--------------------------

Complaint
Mr I has complained that Creation Consumer Finance Limited (“Creation”) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable credit account. He’s said that it ought to have seen that he 
was using a high level of credit and payday loans.
Background
Mr I was provided with a credit account, with a credit limit of £1,350.00, in January 2018. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr I and Creation had told us. And she thought that 
Creation didn’t do anything wrong when providing Mr I with his credit account. So she didn’t 
uphold Mr I’s complaint. Mr I disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
review.
My findings
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We’ve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And I’ve used this approach to help me decide Mr I’s complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I’m upholding Mr I’s complaint. I’ll explain 
why in a bit more detail.
Creation needed to make sure that it didn’t lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Creation needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr I 
could afford to repay before providing him with a credit card.
 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lender’s checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think it’s reasonable for a lender’s checks to be less 
thorough – in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it – in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrower’s income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So we’d expect
a lender to be able to show that it didn’t continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit account Mr I was provided with had a credit limit of £1,350. And as this was a 
revolving credit facility, Creation was required to understand whether Mr I could repay 
around £1,350 within a reasonable period of time. 
Creation says that it would have asked Mr I to confirm him income and that it carried out a 
credit check. It has said that Mr I declared that he earned just under £20,000 and the credit 
checks showed that Mr I had little in the way of existing credit commitments. Mr I disputes 
this and says that he’d had payday loans.
I’ve carefully thought about what the parties have said. The first thing for me to say is that  
Mr I has provided us with extracts from his credit file and I’m prepared to accept that he did 
have some credit commitments at the time and payday loans. However, the information Mr I 
has provided does show that his existing commitments weren’t high and that they were also 
decreasing. So I’m satisfied that this information doesn’t directly contradict the information 
Creation obtained.
In any event, having looked at copies of the bank statements for the account Mr I has 
provided, I can’t see anything within them which clearly demonstrates that Mr I wasn’t in a 
position to make the monthly repayments required to clear the balance on this account within 
a reasonable period of time. If anything the information provided shows the opposite was the 
case at least at the time the account was approved.
 
I accept that Mr I’s full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Creation 
gathered or in the information he’s now provided. But bearing in mind what shows in this 
information, I can’t reasonably say that further checks would have prevented Creation from 
providing this credit account to him. 
I’d also add that it’s only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I don’t think that Creation did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr I – having considered the information Mr I has 
provided, I don’t think this information would have made a difference given Creation’s lack of 
previous history with Mr I. So overall I don’t think it was unreasonable for Creation to provide 
this credit account to Mr I.
As this is the case, I’m not upholding Mr I’s complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr I - especially as he says that he’s had a different complaint upheld. But I 
hope he’ll understand the reasons for my decision in this particular case and that he’ll at 
least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons I’ve explained, I’m not upholding Mr I’s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman

------------------------------

--------------------------
DRN-4426078
--------------------------

The complaint
Mr G complains about a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement he had with 
Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (“Creation”).
What happened
In June 2022 Mr G entered into a regulated hire purchase agreement with Creation in 
relation to a used car. The car’s mileage was 27,143 miles, and its cash price was £19,600. 
He paid a deposit of £1,000, and the rest of the balance was to be repaid over 48 months at 
£280.97 a month, with a balloon payment after that if he wanted to keep the car.
Almost at once, Mr G encountered a number of problems with the car. The car shook while 
driving; the brakes were squeaking; there was a clunking noise coming from the gear box; 
the rear side light was fitted incorrectly; the number plate was not fitted correctly and was 
coming off; and the ash tray lid wouldn’t close.
The car was taken to a main dealer garage twice. The first time, in July 2022, it was held 
overnight for all of the above matters to be investigated and repaired. (The mileage was 
29,859.) However, on 18 August 2022 it was taken back to the same garage, and held there 
until 6 September, 20 days later. Work was carried out on the wheel balance, the brakes, 
and the ash tray. (The mileage was 30,254.)
Then on the dealership’s advice, the car was taken to a third party garage in November 2022 
to check the brakes. The mileage had only increased by one mile since 6 September.
Despite those three times the car was in the garage (all under warranty), the gears, the rear 
light and the number plate still had not been repaired and required further work. By then, 
Mr G had had enough. He did not agree to a fourth attempt. Instead he asked Creation to 
help. But Creation was misinformed by the dealership to the effect that no previous attempt 
had been made to repair the car, so it told him he would have to allow the dealership to 
attempt to repair it. Mr G brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said it was not in dispute that the car had been 
faulty when it had been delivered to Mr G, and there was clear evidence that there had been 
two previous attempts at repairing it, both of which had been unsuccessful. So he 
recommended that the hire purchase agreement be ended with nothing further for Mr G to 
pay, and that the car be collected at no cost to him. He also said that the deposit should be 
refunded, and that Creation should pay Mr G £200 for his inconvenience.
The investigator went on to deal with Mr G’s usage of the car, and his loss of use. He said 
that Mr G had stopped driving the car, as he did not believe it to be safe to drive, and that 
the mileage at that point was 34,446 miles, meaning that he had driven it a total of 7,303 
miles while he had had it. The investigator said that, assuming an average of 1,000 miles a 
month, it would be fair to let Creation keep seven monthly payments – less one of them to 
reflect the fact that Mr G had been deprived of the car for 20 days in August and September 
– and to refund the rest. And he said that interest should be paid on all of the refunds at 8% 
a year.
Mr G accepted most of that decision, but he asked to also be reimbursed for the cost of 
transferring his personalised number plate to this car and to his next car.
Creation asked for an up to date mileage, so Mr G provided a photo of the odometer 
showing that the mileage had not increased. Apart from that, Creation has not substantively 
responded to the investigator’s findings, other than to ask for more time. Since agreement 
had not been reached, this case was referred for an ombudsman’s decision. As the 
investigator gave his decision in August 2023, and the updated mileage was given in 
November, I think that enough time has passed, and so I do not propose to wait any longer.
What I’ve decided – and why
I’ve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what’s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 requires goods hired by a consumer from a trader to be of 
satisfactory quality. Where that turns out not to be the case, the trader is entitled to one 
attempt to repair any defects, and if (and, generally, only if) that attempt fails, the consumer 
may reject the goods. In this case, although there was initially some confusion about 
whether such an attempt had already been made before, it now appears to be no longer in 
dispute that two attempts had been made, in July and in August to September 2022, and 
that neither of these succeeded in resolving all of the issues. But just in case I have 
misunderstood Creation’s position and that is still in dispute, I will say that I am satisfied that 
the evidence provided by the dealership, via Creation, makes it clear that that is indeed the 
case. (The third visit to a garage appears to have been for diagnostic purposes only.)
Putting things right
Mr G is therefore now entitled to reject the car. He is entitled to a full refund, minus a 
deduction for his use of the car. I agree with the way the investigator has calculated this. 
Taking into account the mileage and the time that the car was in the garage, I think that 
Creation is entitled to keep six of the monthly payments (£1,685.82), and must refund the 
rest, with interest.
The car must be collected at no cost to Mr G, with one proviso: ignoring the defects for which 
Creation is responsible, it otherwise has to be in a driveable condition. I mention that only 
because at some point last year the battery was flat, so Mr G will need to fix that, or else 
Creation may have to tow the car, and it might charge him for that. (Of course, if it has to be 
towed anyway because the gears are still defective, then he won’t be liable for that.)
Mr G is no longer insuring the car. I make no findings about that here (because I don’t need 
to), but I will clarify that if any damage occurs (other than the defects which I have described 
above) before the car is collected, then this decision will not affect any liability Mr G might 
have under paragraphs 7, 9 or 14 of the agreement’s terms and conditions.
If I told Creation to reimburse the cost of transferring Mr G’s personalised number plate both 
to this car and also to his next car, then that would mean he would be getting it transferred 
from his previous car to the new one for free. Creation doesn’t have to do that. But I think it 
would be fair for it to pay for one transfer, on production of proof of payment. That costs £80.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Creation Consumer Finance Ltd to:

End Mr G’s hire purchase agreement with nothing further for him to pay;

Collect the car at no cost to Mr G (subject to the exception I have mentioned above, if 
applicable);

Refund his deposit;

Refund all but six of his monthly payments;

Pay simple interest on the above refunds at 8% a year;

Pay Mr G £200 for his inconvenience; and

On production by Mr G of proof of payment of the cost of transferring his 
personalised number plate to his next car, pay him £80.
If Creation considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it must tell Mr G how much it’s taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Mr G should refer back to Creation if he is unsure of the approach it has taken, and both 
parties should contact HMRC if they want to know more about the tax treatment of this 
portion of the compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I’m required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2024.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman

------------------------------
